.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Peter Schiffer (pschiffe@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.TH MTRACE 1 2014-09-01 "GNU" "Linux user manual"
.SH NAME
mtrace \- interpret the malloc trace log
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR mtrace " [\fIoption\fR]... [\fIbinary\fR] \fImtracedata\fR"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mtrace
is a Perl script used to interpret and provide human readable output
of the trace log contained in the file
.IR mtracedata ,
whose contents were produced by
.BR mtrace (3).
If
.I binary
is provided, the output of
.B mtrace
also contains the source file name with line number information
for problem locations
(assuming that
.I binary
was compiled with debugging information).

For more information about the
.BR mtrace (3)
function and
.B mtrace
script usage, see
.BR mtrace (3).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \fB\-\-help
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BI \fB\-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.SH BUGS
For bug reporting instructions, please see:
<http://www.gnu.org/software/libc/bugs.html>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR memusage (1),
.BR mtrace (3)
