.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PLDD 1 2014-09-27 "GNU" "Linux User Manual"
.SH NAME
pldd \- display dynamic shared objects linked into a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BI "pldd " "pid"
.BI pldd " option"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pldd
command displays a list of the dynamic shared objects that are
linked into the process with the specified process ID.
The list includes the libraries that have been dynamically loaded using
.BR dlopen (3).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-? ", " \-\-help
Display program help message.
.TP
.BR \-\-usage
Display a short usage message.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the program version.
.SH VERSIONS
.B pldd
is available since glibc 2.15.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The
.B pldd
command is not specified by POSIX.1.
Some other systems
.\" There are man pages on Solaris and HP-UX.
have a similar command.
.SH EXIT STATUS
On success,
.B pldd
exits with the status 0.
If the specified process does not exist,
the user does not have permission to access
its dynamic shared object list,
or no command-line arguments are supplied,
.B pldd
exists with a status of 1.
If given an invalid option, it exits with the status 64.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
$ \fBecho $$\fP               # Display PID of shell
1143
$ \fBpldd $$\fP               # Display DSOs linked into the shell
1143:	/usr/bin/bash
linux\-vdso.so.1
/lib64/libtinfo.so.5
/lib64/libdl.so.2
/lib64/libc.so.6
/lib64/ld\-linux\-x86\-64.so.2
/lib64/libnss_files.so.2
.fi
.SH NOTES
The command

     lsof -p PID

also shows output that includes the dynamic shared objects
that are linked into a process.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldd (1),
.BR lsof (1),
.BR dlopen (3),
.BR ld.so (8)
