.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" and Copyright (c) 2012 by Eric W. Biederman <ebiederm@xmission.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"
.TH PID_NAMESPACES 7 2015-01-10 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pid_namespaces \- overview of Linux PID namespaces
.SH DESCRIPTION
For an overview of namespaces, see
.BR namespaces (7).

PID namespaces isolate the process ID number space,
meaning that processes in different PID namespaces can have the same PID.
PID namespaces allow containers to provide functionality
such as suspending/resuming the set of processes in the container and
migrating the container to a new host
while the processes inside the container maintain the same PIDs.

PIDs in a new PID namespace start at 1,
somewhat like a standalone system, and calls to
.BR fork (2),
.BR vfork (2),
or
.BR clone (2)
will produce processes with PIDs that are unique within the namespace.

Use of PID namespaces requires a kernel that is configured with the
.B CONFIG_PID_NS
option.
.\"
.\" ============================================================
.\"
.SS The namespace "init" process
The first process created in a new namespace
(i.e., the process created using
.BR clone (2)
with the
.BR CLONE_NEWPID
flag, or the first child created by a process after a call to
.BR unshare (2)
using the
.BR CLONE_NEWPID
flag) has the PID 1, and is the "init" process for the namespace (see
.BR init (1)).
A child process that is orphaned within the namespace will be reparented
to this process rather than
.BR init (1)
(unless one of the ancestors of the child
in the same PID namespace employed the
.BR prctl (2)
.B PR_SET_CHILD_SUBREAPER
command to mark itself as the reaper of orphaned descendant processes).

If the "init" process of a PID namespace terminates,
the kernel terminates all of the processes in the namespace via a
.BR SIGKILL
signal.
This behavior reflects the fact that the "init" process
is essential for the correct operation of a PID namespace.
In this case, a subsequent
.BR fork (2)
into this PID namespace will fail with the error
.BR ENOMEM ;
it is not possible to create a new processes in a PID namespace whose "init"
process has terminated.
Such scenarios can occur when, for example,
a process uses an open file descriptor for a
.I /proc/[pid]/ns/pid
file corresponding to a process that was in a namespace to
.BR setns (2)
into that namespace after the "init" process has terminated.
Another possible scenario can occur after a call to
.BR unshare (2):
if the first child subsequently created by a
.BR fork (2)
terminates, then subsequent calls to
.BR fork (2)
will fail with
.BR ENOMEM .

Only signals for which the "init" process has established a signal handler
can be sent to the "init" process by other members of the PID namespace.
This restriction applies even to privileged processes,
and prevents other members of the PID namespace from
accidentally killing the "init" process.

Likewise, a process in an ancestor namespace
can\(emsubject to the usual permission checks described in
.BR kill (2)\(emsend
signals to the "init" process of a child PID namespace only
if the "init" process has established a handler for that signal.
(Within the handler, the
.I siginfo_t
.I si_pid
field described in
.BR sigaction (2)
will be zero.)
.B SIGKILL
or
.B SIGSTOP
are treated exceptionally:
these signals are forcibly delivered when sent from an ancestor PID namespace.
Neither of these signals can be caught by the "init" process,
and so will result in the usual actions associated with those signals
(respectively, terminating and stopping the process).

Starting with Linux 3.4, the
.BR reboot (2)
system call causes a signal to be sent to the namespace "init" process.
See
.BR reboot (2)
for more details.
.\"
.\" ============================================================
.\"
.SS Nesting PID namespaces
PID namespaces can be nested:
each PID namespace has a parent,
except for the initial ("root") PID namespace.
The parent of a PID namespace is the PID namespace of the process that
created the namespace using
.BR clone (2)
or
.BR unshare (2).
PID namespaces thus form a tree,
with all namespaces ultimately tracing their ancestry to the root namespace.

A process is visible to other processes in its PID namespace,
and to the processes in each direct ancestor PID namespace
going back to the root PID namespace.
In this context, "visible" means that one process
can be the target of operations by another process using
system calls that specify a process ID.
Conversely, the processes in a child PID namespace can't see
processes in the parent and further removed ancestor namespaces.
More succinctly: a process can see (e.g., send signals with
.BR kill (2),
set nice values with
.BR setpriority (2),
etc.) only processes contained in its own PID namespace
and in descendants of that namespace.

A process has one process ID in each of the layers of the PID
namespace hierarchy in which is visible,
and walking back though each direct ancestor namespace
through to the root PID namespace.
System calls that operate on process IDs always
operate using the process ID that is visible in the
PID namespace of the caller.
A call to
.BR getpid (2)
always returns the PID associated with the namespace in which
the process was created.

Some processes in a PID namespace may have parents
that are outside of the namespace.
For example, the parent of the initial process in the namespace
(i.e., the
.BR init (1)
process with PID 1) is necessarily in another namespace.
Likewise, the direct children of a process that uses
.BR setns (2)
to cause its children to join a PID namespace are in a different
PID namespace from the caller of
.BR setns (2).
Calls to
.BR getppid (2)
for such processes return 0.

While processes may freely descend into child PID namespaces
(e.g., using
.BR setns (2)
with
.BR CLONE_NEWPID ),
they may not move in the other direction.
That is to say, processes may not enter any ancestor namespaces
(parent, grandparent, etc.).
Changing PID namespaces is a one way operation.
.\"
.\" ============================================================
.\"
.SS setns(2) and unshare(2) semantics
Calls to
.BR setns (2)
that specify a PID namespace file descriptor
and calls to
.BR unshare (2)
with the
.BR CLONE_NEWPID
flag cause children subsequently created
by the caller to be placed in a different PID namespace from the caller.
These calls do not, however,
change the PID namespace of the calling process,
because doing so would change the caller's idea of its own PID
(as reported by
.BR getpid ()),
which would break many applications and libraries.

To put things another way:
a process's PID namespace membership is determined when the process is created
and cannot be changed thereafter.
Among other things, this means that the parental relationship
between processes mirrors the parental relationship between PID namespaces:
the parent of a process is either in the same namespace
or resides in the immediate parent PID namespace.
.SS Compatibility of CLONE_NEWPID with other CLONE_* flags
.BR CLONE_NEWPID
can't be combined with some other
.BR CLONE_*
flags:
.IP * 3
.B CLONE_THREAD
requires being in the same PID namespace in order that
the threads in a process can send signals to each other.
Similarly, it must be possible to see all of the threads
of a processes in the
.BR proc (5)
filesystem.
.IP *
.BR CLONE_SIGHAND
requires being in the same PID namespace;
otherwise the process ID of the process sending a signal
could not be meaningfully encoded when a signal is sent
(see the description of the
.I siginfo_t
type in
.BR sigaction (2)).
A signal queue shared by processes in multiple PID namespaces
will defeat that.
.IP *
.BR CLONE_VM
requires all of the threads to be in the same PID namespace,
because, from the point of view of a core dump,
if two processes share the same address space then they are threads and will
be core dumped together.
When a core dump is written, the PID of each
thread is written into the core dump.
Writing the process IDs could not meaningfully succeed
if some of the process IDs were in a parent PID namespace.
.PP
To summarize: there is a technical requirement for each of
.BR CLONE_THREAD ,
.BR CLONE_SIGHAND ,
and
.BR CLONE_VM
to share a PID namespace.
(Note furthermore that in
.BR clone (2)
requires
.BR CLONE_VM
to be specified if
.BR CLONE_THREAD
or
.BR CLONE_SIGHAND
is specified.)
Thus, call sequences such as the following will fail (with the error
.BR EINVAL ):

.nf
    unshare(CLONE_NEWPID);
    clone(..., CLONE_VM, ...);    /* Fails */

    setns(fd, CLONE_NEWPID);
    clone(..., CLONE_VM, ...);    /* Fails */

    clone(..., CLONE_VM, ...);
    setns(fd, CLONE_NEWPID);      /* Fails */

    clone(..., CLONE_VM, ...);
    unshare(CLONE_NEWPID);        /* Fails */
.fi
.\"
.\" ============================================================
.\"
.SS /proc and PID namespaces
A
.I /proc
filesystem shows (in the
.I /proc/PID
directories) only processes visible in the PID namespace
of the process that performed the mount, even if the
.I /proc
filesystem is viewed from processes in other namespaces.

After creating a new PID namespace,
it is useful for the child to change its root directory
and mount a new procfs instance at
.I /proc
so that tools such as
.BR ps (1)
work correctly.
If a new mount namespace is simultaneously created by including
.BR CLONE_NEWNS
in the
.IR flags
argument of
.BR clone (2)
or
.BR unshare (2),
then it isn't necessary to change the root directory:
a new procfs instance can be mounted directly over
.IR /proc .

From a shell, the command to mount
.I /proc
is:

    $ mount -t proc proc /proc

Calling
.BR readlink (2)
on the path
.I /proc/self
yields the process ID of the caller in the PID namespace of the procfs mount
(i.e., the PID namespace of the process that mounted the procfs).
This can be useful for introspection purposes,
when a process wants to discover its PID in other namespaces.
.\"
.\" ============================================================
.\"
.SS Miscellaneous
When a process ID is passed over a UNIX domain socket to a
process in a different PID namespace (see the description of
.B SCM_CREDENTIALS
in
.BR unix (7)),
it is translated into the corresponding PID value in
the receiving process's PID namespace.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Namespaces are a Linux-specific feature.
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR user_namespaces (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR clone (2),
.BR setns (2),
.BR unshare (2),
.BR proc (5),
.BR credentials (7),
.BR capabilities (7),
.BR user_namespaces (7),
.BR switch_root (8)
