.Dd 9/11/15
.Dt SSH-KEYCHAIN 8
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm ssh-keychain.dylib
.Nd smartcard/keychain support library
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The ssh-keychain.dylib library is used as a PKCS11 module replacement for family of ssh tools. It provides
cerfiticates on smartcards and/or user keychains.
.Sh OVERVIEW
By default, only valid certificates available on all smartcards currently inserted into attached readers. If certificates
on user keychains are desired, configuration of
.Nm
is necessary. This is also true if there is a need to limit which smartcard
certificates are provided.
To select certificates which should be provided, it is necessary to know public key hash of such certificates.
This hash is usually in hexadecimal string form, without leading
.Em 0x .
To determine such hash for certificate on smartcard,
.Em sc_auth hash
command can be used. For certificates in user keychains, it is the value of
.Em hpky
attribute from
.Em security find-certificate
output.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
Configuration passed as environment variable has always precedence over configuration file. There
is just one available variable - 
.Em KEYCHAIN_CERTIFICATES .
It should contain semicolon-separated list of public key hashes of certificates which
should be provided to the ssh tools.
.Sh CONFIG FILE
If no enviroment variable configuration is provided,
.Nm
looks for configuration file located at
.Em ~/.ssh/sshkeychain.plist
This file is standard property-list and should contain string value named
.Em KeychainCertificates.
Its value is expected to be semicolon-separated list of public key hashes which should be exposed to ssh tools.
.Em KeychainCertificates
can be also an array where each item corresponds to the one public key hash.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.Bd -unfilled
.It Ev Environment:
KEYCHAIN_CERTIFICATES="AE31125DA4AAA294A4FED97B815D7F8DD1A78FF3;168D2C4CDDFCDADD465BAF3E6BCFE8193D8D42D1"
ssh -o PKCS11Provider=/usr/lib/ssh-keychain.dylib machine
.Ed
.Bd -unfilled
.It Ev Configuration plist:
{
    "KeychainCertificates" => [
        0 => "AE31125DA4AAA294A4FED97B815D7F8DD1A78FF3"
        1 => "168D2C4CDDFCDADD465BAF3E6BCFE8193D8D42D1"
    ]
}
.Ed
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "~/.ssh/sshkeychain.plist" -compact
.It Pa ~/.ssh/sshkeychain.plist
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sc_auth 8 ,
.Xr ssh-add 1 ,
.Xr ssh_config 5
