.\" Copyright (C) 2011, Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
.\" Written by Stephen M. Cameron <scameron@beardog.cce.hp.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2_ONELINE)
.\" Licensed under GNU General Public License version 2 (GPLv2)
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH CCISS 4 2012-08-05 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
cciss \- HP Smart Array block driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
modprobe cciss [ cciss_allow_hpsa=1 ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cciss
is a block driver for older HP Smart Array RAID controllers.
.SS Options
.IR "cciss_allow_hpsa=1" :
This option prevents the
.B cciss
driver from attempting to drive any controllers that the
.BR hpsa (4)
driver is capable of controlling, which is to say, the
.B cciss
driver is restricted by this option to the following controllers:
.nf

    Smart Array 5300
    Smart Array 5i
    Smart Array 532
    Smart Array 5312
    Smart Array 641
    Smart Array 642
    Smart Array 6400
    Smart Array 6400 EM
    Smart Array 6i
    Smart Array P600
    Smart Array P400i
    Smart Array E200i
    Smart Array E200
    Smart Array E200i
    Smart Array E200i
    Smart Array E200i
    Smart Array E500
.fi
.SS Supported hardware
The
.B cciss
driver supports the following Smart Array boards:
.nf

    Smart Array 5300
    Smart Array 5i
    Smart Array 532
    Smart Array 5312
    Smart Array 641
    Smart Array 642
    Smart Array 6400
    Smart Array 6400 U320 Expansion Module
    Smart Array 6i
    Smart Array P600
    Smart Array P800
    Smart Array E400
    Smart Array P400i
    Smart Array E200
    Smart Array E200i
    Smart Array E500
    Smart Array P700m
    Smart Array P212
    Smart Array P410
    Smart Array P410i
    Smart Array P411
    Smart Array P812
    Smart Array P712m
    Smart Array P711m
.fi
.SS Configuration details
To configure HP Smart Array controllers,
use the HP Array Configuration Utility
(either
.BR hpacuxe (8)
or
.BR hpacucli (8))
or the Offline ROM-based Configuration Utility (ORCA)
run from the Smart Array's option ROM at boot time.
.SH FILES
.SS Device nodes
The device naming scheme is as follows:
.nf

Major numbers:

    104     cciss0
    105     cciss1
    106     cciss2
    105     cciss3
    108     cciss4
    109     cciss5
    110     cciss6
    111     cciss7

Minor numbers:

    b7 b6 b5 b4 b3 b2 b1 b0
    |----+----| |----+----|
         |           |
         |           +-------- Partition ID (0=wholedev, 1-15 partition)
         |
         +-------------------- Logical Volume number

The device naming scheme is:

    /dev/cciss/c0d0         Controller 0, disk 0, whole device
    /dev/cciss/c0d0p1       Controller 0, disk 0, partition 1
    /dev/cciss/c0d0p2       Controller 0, disk 0, partition 2
    /dev/cciss/c0d0p3       Controller 0, disk 0, partition 3

    /dev/cciss/c1d1         Controller 1, disk 1, whole device
    /dev/cciss/c1d1p1       Controller 1, disk 1, partition 1
    /dev/cciss/c1d1p2       Controller 1, disk 1, partition 2
    /dev/cciss/c1d1p3       Controller 1, disk 1, partition 3
.fi
.SS Files in /proc
The files
.I /proc/driver/cciss/cciss[0-9]+
contain information about
the configuration of each controller.
For example:
.nf

    $ \fBcd /proc/driver/cciss\fP
    $ \fBls -l\fP
    total 0
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 0 2010-09-10 10:38 cciss0
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 0 2010-09-10 10:38 cciss1
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 0 2010-09-10 10:38 cciss2
    $ \fBcat cciss2\fP
    cciss2: HP Smart Array P800 Controller
    Board ID: 0x3223103c
    Firmware Version: 7.14
    IRQ: 16
    Logical drives: 1
    Current Q depth: 0
    Current # commands on controller: 0
    Max Q depth since init: 1
    Max # commands on controller since init: 2
    Max SG entries since init: 32
    Sequential access devices: 0

    cciss/c2d0:   36.38GB       RAID 0
.fi
.SS Files in /sys
.TP
.I /sys/bus/pci/devices/<dev>/ccissX/cXdY/model
Displays the SCSI INQUIRY page 0 model for logical drive
.I Y
of controller
.IR X .
.TP
.I /sys/bus/pci/devices/<dev>/ccissX/cXdY/rev
Displays the SCSI INQUIRY page 0 revision for logical drive
.I Y
of controller
.IR X .
.TP
.I /sys/bus/pci/devices/<dev>/ccissX/cXdY/unique_id
Displays the SCSI INQUIRY page 83 serial number for logical drive
.I Y
of controller
.IR X .
.TP
.I /sys/bus/pci/devices/<dev>/ccissX/cXdY/vendor
Displays the SCSI INQUIRY page 0 vendor for logical drive
.I Y
of controller
.IR X .
.TP
.I /sys/bus/pci/devices/<dev>/ccissX/cXdY/block:cciss!cXdY
A symbolic link to
.IR /sys/block/cciss!cXdY .
.TP
.I /sys/bus/pci/devices/<dev>/ccissX/rescan
When this file is written to, the driver rescans the controller
to discover any new, removed, or modified logical drives.
.TP
.I /sys/bus/pci/devices/<dev>/ccissX/resettable
A value of 1 displayed in this file indicates that
the "reset_devices=1" kernel parameter (used by
.BR kdump )
is honored by this controller.
A value of 0 indicates that the
"reset_devices=1" kernel parameter will not be honored.
Some models of Smart Array are not able to honor this parameter.
.TP
.I /sys/bus/pci/devices/<dev>/ccissX/cXdY/lunid
Displays the 8-byte LUN ID used to address logical drive
.I Y
of controller
.IR X .
.TP
.I /sys/bus/pci/devices/<dev>/ccissX/cXdY/raid_level
Displays the RAID level of logical drive
.I Y
of controller
.IR X .
.TP
.I /sys/bus/pci/devices/<dev>/ccissX/cXdY/usage_count
Displays the usage count (number of opens) of logical drive
.I Y
of controller
.IR X .
.SS SCSI tape drive and medium changer support
SCSI sequential access devices and medium changer devices are supported and
appropriate device nodes are automatically created (e.g.,
.IR /dev/st0 ,
.IR /dev/st1 ,
etc.; see
.BR st (4)
for more details.)
You must enable "SCSI tape drive support for Smart Array 5xxx" and
"SCSI support" in your kernel configuration to be able to use SCSI
tape drives with your Smart Array 5xxx controller.

Additionally, note that the driver will not engage the SCSI core at
init time.
The driver must be directed to dynamically engage the SCSI core via the
.I /proc
filesystem entry,
which the "block" side of the driver creates as
.I /proc/driver/cciss/cciss*
at run time.
This is because at driver init time,
the SCSI core may not yet be initialized (because the driver is a block
driver) and attempting to register it with the SCSI core in such a case
would cause a hang.
This is best done via an initialization script
(typically in
.IR /etc/init.d ,
but could vary depending on distribution).
For example:
.nf

    for x in /proc/driver/cciss/cciss[0-9]*
    do
        echo "engage scsi" > $x
    done

.fi
Once the SCSI core is engaged by the driver, it cannot be disengaged
(except by unloading the driver, if it happens to be linked as a module.)

Note also that if no sequential access devices or medium changers are
detected, the SCSI core will not be engaged by the action of the above
script.
.SS Hot plug support for SCSI tape drives
Hot plugging of SCSI tape drives is supported, with some caveats.
The
.B cciss
driver must be informed that changes to the SCSI bus
have been made.
This may be done via the
.I /proc
filesystem.
For example:

    echo "rescan" > /proc/scsi/cciss0/1

This causes the driver to:
.RS
.IP 1. 3
query the adapter about changes to the
physical SCSI buses and/or fibre channel arbitrated loop, and
.IP 2.
make note of any new or removed sequential access devices
or medium changers.
.RE
.LP
The driver will output messages indicating which
devices have been added or removed and the controller, bus, target, and
lun used to address each device.
The driver then notifies the SCSI midlayer
of these changes.

Note that the naming convention of the
.I /proc
filesystem entries
contains a number in addition to the driver name
(e.g., "cciss0"
instead of just "cciss", which you might expect).

Note:
.I Only
sequential access devices and medium changers are presented
as SCSI devices to the SCSI midlayer by the
.B cciss
driver.
Specifically, physical SCSI disk drives are
.I not
presented to the SCSI midlayer.
The only disk devices that are presented to the kernel are logical
drives that the array controller constructs from regions on
the physical drives.
The logical drives are presented to the block layer
(not to the SCSI midlayer).
It is important for the driver to prevent the kernel from accessing the
physical drives directly, since these drives are used by the array
controller to construct the logical drives.
.SS SCSI error handling for tape drives and medium changers
The Linux SCSI midlayer provides an error-handling protocol that
is initiated whenever a SCSI command fails to complete within a
certain amount of time (which can vary depending on the command).
The
.B cciss
driver participates in this protocol to some extent.
The normal protocol is a four-step process:
.IP * 3
First, the device is told to abort the command.
.IP *
If that doesn't work, the device is reset.
.IP *
If that doesn't work, the SCSI bus is reset.
.IP *
If that doesn't work, the host bus adapter is reset.
.LP
The
.B cciss
driver is a block
driver as well as a SCSI driver and only the tape drives and medium
changers are presented to the SCSI midlayer.
Furthermore, unlike more
straightforward SCSI drivers, disk I/O continues through the block
side during the SCSI error-recovery process.
Therefore, the
.B cciss
driver implements only the first two of these actions,
aborting the command, and resetting the device.
Note also that most tape drives will not oblige
in aborting commands, and sometimes it appears they will not even
obey a reset command, though in most circumstances they will.
If the command cannot be aborted and the device cannot be
reset, the device will be set offline.

In the event that the error-handling code is triggered and a tape drive is
successfully reset or the tardy command is successfully aborted, the
tape drive may still not allow I/O to continue until some command
is issued that positions the tape to a known position.
Typically you must rewind the tape (by issuing
.I "mt -f /dev/st0 rewind"
for example) before I/O can proceed again to a tape drive that was reset.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cciss_vol_status (8),
.BR hpsa (4),
.BR hpacucli (8),
.BR hpacuxe (8),

.UR http://cciss.sf.net
.UE ,
and
.I Documentation/blockdev/cciss.txt
and
.I Documentation/ABI/testing/sysfs-bus-pci-devices-cciss
in the Linux kernel source tree
.\" .SH AUTHORS
.\" Don Brace, Steve Cameron, Chase Maupin, Mike Miller, Michael Ni,
.\" Charles White, Francis Wiran
.\" and probably some other people.
