.\" This man-page is Copyright (C) 1997 John S. Kallal
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" correction, aeb, 970825
.TH FULL 4 2007-11-24 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
full \- always full device
.SH CONFIGURATION
If your system does not have
.I /dev/full
created already, it
can be created with the following commands:
.nf

        mknod \-m 666 /dev/full c 1 7
        chown root:root /dev/full
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
File
.I /dev/full
has major device number 1
and minor device number 7.
.LP
Writes to the
.I /dev/full
device will fail with an
.B ENOSPC
error.
This can be used to test how a program handles disk-full errors.

Reads from the
.I /dev/full
device will return \\0 characters.

Seeks on
.I /dev/full
will always succeed.
.SH FILES
/dev/full
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mknod (1),
.BR null (4),
.BR zero (4)
