.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"     Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:56:20 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 21:38:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" (and some more by aeb)
.\"
.TH HD 4 1992-12-17 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
hd \- MFM/IDE hard disk devices
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B hd*
devices are block devices to access MFM/IDE hard disk drives
in raw mode.
The master drive on the primary IDE controller (major device
number 3) is
.BR hda ;
the slave drive is
.BR hdb .
The master drive of the second controller (major device number 22)
is
.B hdc
and the slave is
.BR hdd .
.LP
General IDE block device names have the form
.BI hd X\c
, or
.BI hd XP\c
, where
.I X
is a letter denoting the physical drive, and
.I P
is a number denoting the partition on that physical drive.
The first form,
.BI hd X\c
, is used to address the whole drive.
Partition numbers are assigned in the order the partitions
are discovered, and only nonempty, nonextended partitions
get a number.
However, partition numbers 1-4 are given to the
four partitions described in the MBR (the "primary" partitions),
regardless of whether they are unused or extended.
Thus, the first logical partition will be
.BI hd X 5\c
\&.
Both DOS-type partitioning and BSD-disklabel partitioning are supported.
You can have at most 63 partitions on an IDE disk.
.LP
For example,
.I /dev/hda
refers to all of the first IDE drive in the system; and
.I /dev/hdb3
refers to the third DOS "primary" partition on the second one.
.LP
They are typically created by:
.RS
.sp
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hda b 3 0
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hda1 b 3 1
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hda2 b 3 2
.br
\&...
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hda8 b 3 8
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hdb b 3 64
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hdb1 b 3 65
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hdb2 b 3 66
.br
\&...
.br
mknod \-m 660 /dev/hdb8 b 3 72
.br
chown root:disk /dev/hd*
.RE
.SH FILES
/dev/hd*
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chown (1),
.BR mknod (1),
.BR sd (4),
.BR mount (8)
