.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from /usr/include/sys/socket.h, which does not have
.\" any authorship information in it.  It is probably available under the GPL.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"
.\" Other portions are from the 6.9 (Berkeley) 3/10/91 man page:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 1997-01-31 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998, 1999 by Andi Kleen
.\" Modified 2004-06-23 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH CONNECT 2 2015-12-28 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
connect \- initiate a connection on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#include <sys/types.h>" "          /* See NOTES */"
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int connect(int " sockfd ", const struct sockaddr *" addr ,
.BI "            socklen_t " addrlen );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR connect ()
system call connects the socket referred to by the file descriptor
.I sockfd
to the address specified by
.IR addr .
The
.I addrlen
argument specifies the size of
.IR addr .
The format of the address in
.I addr
is determined by the address space of the socket
.IR sockfd ;
see
.BR socket (2)
for further details.

If the socket
.I sockfd
is of type
.BR SOCK_DGRAM ,
then
.I addr
is the address to which datagrams are sent by default, and the only
address from which datagrams are received.
If the socket is of type
.B SOCK_STREAM
or
.BR SOCK_SEQPACKET ,
this call attempts to make a connection to the socket that is bound
to the address specified by
.IR addr .
.PP
Generally, connection-based protocol sockets may successfully
.BR connect ()
only once; connectionless protocol sockets may use
.BR connect ()
multiple times to change their association.
Connectionless sockets may
dissolve the association by connecting to an address with the
.I sa_family
member of
.I sockaddr
set to
.BR AF_UNSPEC
(supported on Linux since kernel 2.2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
If the connection or binding succeeds, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
The following are general socket errors only.
There may be other domain-specific error codes.
.TP
.B EACCES
For UNIX domain sockets, which are identified by pathname:
Write permission is denied on the socket file,
or search permission is denied for one of the directories
in the path prefix.
(See also
.BR path_resolution (7).)
.TP
.BR EACCES ", " EPERM
The user tried to connect to a broadcast address without having the socket
broadcast flag enabled or the connection request failed because of a local
firewall rule.
.TP
.B EADDRINUSE
Local address is already in use.
.TP
.B EADDRNOTAVAIL
(Internet domain sockets)
The socket referred to by
.I sockfd
had not previously been bound to an address and,
upon attempting to bind it to an ephemeral port,
it was determined that all port numbers in the ephemeral port range
are currently in use.
See the discussion of
.I /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_local_port_range
in
.BR ip (7).
.TP
.B EAFNOSUPPORT
The passed address didn't have the correct address family in its
.I sa_family
field.
.TP
.B EAGAIN
Insufficient entries in the routing cache.
.TP
.B EALREADY
The socket is nonblocking and a previous connection attempt has not yet
been completed.
.TP
.B EBADF
.I sockfd
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.B ECONNREFUSED
No-one listening on the remote address.
.TP
.B EFAULT
The socket structure address is outside the user's address space.
.TP
.B EINPROGRESS
The socket is nonblocking and the connection cannot be completed
immediately.
It is possible to
.BR select (2)
or
.BR poll (2)
for completion by selecting the socket for writing.
After
.BR select (2)
indicates writability, use
.BR getsockopt (2)
to read the
.B SO_ERROR
option at level
.B SOL_SOCKET
to determine whether
.BR connect ()
completed successfully
.RB ( SO_ERROR
is zero) or unsuccessfully
.RB ( SO_ERROR
is one of the usual error codes listed here,
explaining the reason for the failure).
.TP
.B EINTR
The system call was interrupted by a signal that was caught; see
.BR signal (7).
.\" For TCP, the connection will complete asynchronously.
.\" See http://lkml.org/lkml/2005/7/12/254
.TP
.B EISCONN
The socket is already connected.
.TP
.B ENETUNREACH
Network is unreachable.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
The file descriptor
.I sockfd
does not refer to a socket.
.TP
.B EPROTOTYPE
The socket type does not support the requested communications protocol.
This error can occur, for example,
on an attempt to connect a UNIX domain datagram socket to a stream socket.
.TP
.B ETIMEDOUT
Timeout while attempting connection.
The server may be too
busy to accept new connections.
Note that for IP sockets the timeout may
be very long when syncookies are enabled on the server.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4, 4.4BSD, (the
.BR connect ()
function first appeared in 4.2BSD).
.\" SVr4 documents the additional
.\" general error codes
.\" .BR EADDRNOTAVAIL ,
.\" .BR EINVAL ,
.\" .BR EAFNOSUPPORT ,
.\" .BR EALREADY ,
.\" .BR EINTR ,
.\" .BR EPROTOTYPE ,
.\" and
.\" .BR ENOSR .
.\" It also
.\" documents many additional error conditions not described here.
.SH NOTES
POSIX.1 does not require the inclusion of
.IR <sys/types.h> ,
and this header file is not required on Linux.
However, some historical (BSD) implementations required this header
file, and portable applications are probably wise to include it.

The third argument of
.BR connect ()
is in reality an
.I int
(and this is what 4.x BSD and libc4 and libc5 have).
Some POSIX confusion resulted in the present
.IR socklen_t ,
also used by glibc.
See also
.BR accept (2).

If
.BR connect ()
fails, consider the state of the socket as unspecified.
Portable applications should close the socket and create a new one for
reconnecting.
.SH EXAMPLE
An example of the use of
.BR connect ()
is shown in
.BR getaddrinfo (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR accept (2),
.BR bind (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR path_resolution (7)
