.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH EXIT_GROUP 2 2008-11-27 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
exit_group \- exit all threads in a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "void exit_group(int " status );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This system call is equivalent to
.BR exit (2)
except that it terminates not only the calling thread, but all threads
in the calling process's thread group.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This system call does not return.
.SH VERSIONS
This call is present since Linux 2.5.35.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This call is Linux-specific.
.SH NOTES
Since glibc 2.3, this is the system call invoked when the
.BR exit (2)
wrapper function is called.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exit (2)
