.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Written by Dave Chinner <dgc@sgi.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2_ONELINE)
.\" May be distributed as per GNU General Public License version 2.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2011-09-19: Added FALLOC_FL_PUNCH_HOLE
.\" 2011-09-19: Substantial restructuring of the page
.\"
.TH FALLOCATE 2 2015-07-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
fallocate \- manipulate file space
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <fcntl.h>

.BI "int fallocate(int " fd ", int " mode ", off_t " offset \
", off_t " len ");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a nonportable, Linux-specific system call.
For the portable, POSIX.1-specified method of ensuring that space
is allocated for a file, see
.BR posix_fallocate (3).

.BR fallocate ()
allows the caller to directly manipulate the allocated disk space
for the file referred to by
.I fd
for the byte range starting at
.I offset
and continuing for
.I len
bytes.

The
.I mode
argument determines the operation to be performed on the given range.
Details of the supported operations are given in the subsections below.
.SS Allocating disk space
The default operation (i.e.,
.I mode
is zero) of
.BR fallocate ()
allocates the disk space within the range specified by
.I offset
and
.IR len .
The file size (as reported by
.BR stat (2))
will be changed if
.IR offset + len
is greater than the file size.
Any subregion within the range specified by
.I offset
and
.IR len
that did not contain data before the call will be initialized to zero.
This default behavior closely resembles the behavior of the
.BR posix_fallocate (3)
library function,
and is intended as a method of optimally implementing that function.

After a successful call, subsequent writes into the range specified by
.IR offset
and
.IR len
are guaranteed not to fail because of lack of disk space.

If the
.B FALLOC_FL_KEEP_SIZE
flag is specified in
.IR mode ,
the behavior of the call is similar,
but the file size will not be changed even if
.IR offset + len
is greater than the file size.
Preallocating zeroed blocks beyond the end of the file in this manner
is useful for optimizing append workloads.
.PP
Because allocation is done in block size chunks,
.BR fallocate ()
may allocate a larger range of disk space than was specified.
.SS Deallocating file space
Specifying the
.BR FALLOC_FL_PUNCH_HOLE
flag (available since Linux 2.6.38) in
.I mode
deallocates space (i.e., creates a hole)
in the byte range starting at
.I offset
and continuing for
.I len
bytes.
Within the specified range, partial filesystem blocks are zeroed,
and whole filesystem blocks are removed from the file.
After a successful call,
subsequent reads from this range will return zeroes.

The
.BR FALLOC_FL_PUNCH_HOLE
flag must be ORed with
.BR FALLOC_FL_KEEP_SIZE
in
.IR mode ;
in other words, even when punching off the end of the file, the file size
(as reported by
.BR stat (2))
does not change.

Not all filesystems support
.BR FALLOC_FL_PUNCH_HOLE ;
if a filesystem doesn't support the operation, an error is returned.
The operation is supported on at least the following filesystems:
.IP * 3
XFS (since Linux 2.6.38)
.IP *
ext4 (since Linux 3.0)
.\" commit a4bb6b64e39abc0e41ca077725f2a72c868e7622
.IP *
Btrfs (since Linux 3.7)
.IP *
tmpfs (since Linux 3.5)
.\" commit 83e4fa9c16e4af7122e31be3eca5d57881d236fe
.SS Collapsing file space
.\" commit 00f5e61998dd17f5375d9dfc01331f104b83f841
Specifying the
.BR FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE
flag (available since Linux 3.15) in
.I mode
removes a byte range from a file, without leaving a hole.
The byte range to be collapsed starts at
.I offset
and continues for
.I len
bytes.
At the completion of the operation,
the contents of the file starting at the location
.I offset+len
will be appended at the location
.IR offset ,
and the file will be
.I len
bytes smaller.

A filesystem may place limitations on the granularity of the operation,
in order to ensure efficient implementation.
Typically,
.I offset
and
.I len
must be a multiple of the filesystem logical block size,
which varies according to the filesystem type and configuration.
If a filesystem has such a requirement,
.BR fallocate ()
will fail with the error
.BR EINVAL
if this requirement is violated.

If the region specified by
.I offset
plus
.I len
reaches or passes the end of file, an error is returned;
instead, use
.BR ftruncate (2)
to truncate a file.

No other flags may be specified in
.IR mode
in conjunction with
.BR FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE .

As at Linux 3.15,
.B FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE
is supported by
ext4 (only for extent-based files)
.\" commit 9eb79482a97152930b113b51dff530aba9e28c8e
and XFS.
.\" commit e1d8fb88a64c1f8094b9f6c3b6d2d9e6719c970d
.SS Zeroing file space
Specifying the
.BR FALLOC_FL_ZERO_RANGE
flag (available since Linux 3.15)
.\" commit 409332b65d3ed8cfa7a8030f1e9d52f372219642
in
.I mode
zeroes space in the byte range starting at
.I offset
and continuing for
.I len
bytes.
Within the specified range, blocks are preallocated for the regions
that span the holes in the file.
After a successful call, subsequent
reads from this range will return zeroes.

Zeroing is done within the filesystem preferably by converting the range into
unwritten extents.
This approach means that the specified range will not be physically zeroed
out on the device (except for partial blocks at the either end of the range),
and I/O is (otherwise) required only to update metadata.

If the
.B FALLOC_FL_KEEP_SIZE
flag is additionally specified in
.IR mode ,
the behavior of the call is similar,
but the file size will not be changed even if
.IR offset + len
is greater than the file size.
This behavior is the same as when preallocating space with
.B FALLOC_FL_KEEP_SIZE
specified.

Not all filesystems support
.BR FALLOC_FL_ZERO_RANGE ;
if a filesystem doesn't support the operation, an error is returned.
The operation is supported on at least the following filesystems:
.IP * 3
XFS (since Linux 3.15)
.\" commit 376ba313147b4172f3e8cf620b9fb591f3e8cdfa
.IP *
ext4, for extent-based files (since Linux 3.15)
.\" commit b8a8684502a0fc852afa0056c6bb2a9273f6fcc0
.IP *
SMB3 (since Linux 3.17)
.\" commit 30175628bf7f521e9ee31ac98fa6d6fe7441a556
.SS Increasing file space
Specifying the
.BR FALLOC_FL_INSERT_RANGE
flag
(available since Linux 4.1)
.\" commit dd46c787788d5bf5b974729d43e4c405814a4c7d
in
.I mode
increases the file space by inserting a hole within the file size without
overwriting any existing data.
The hole will start at
.I offset
and continue for
.I len
bytes.
When inserting the hole inside file, the contents of the file starting at
.I offset
will be shifted upward (i.e., to a higher file offset) by
.I len
bytes.
Inserting a hole inside a file increases the file size by
.I len
bytes.

This mode has the same limitations as
.BR FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE
regarding the granularity of the operation.
If the granularity requirements are not met,
.BR fallocate ()
will fail with the error
.BR EINVAL.
If the
.I offset
is equal to or greater than the end of file, an error is returned.
For such operations (i.e., inserting a hole at the end of file),
.BR ftruncate (2)
should be used.

No other flags may be specified in
.IR mode
in conjunction with
.BR FALLOC_FL_INSERT_RANGE .

.B FALLOC_FL_INSERT_RANGE
requires filesystem support.
Filesystems that support this operation include
XFS (since Linux 4.1)
.\" commit a904b1ca5751faf5ece8600e18cd3b674afcca1b
and ext4 (since Linux 4.2).
.\" commit 331573febb6a224bc50322e3670da326cb7f4cfc
.\" f2fs also has support since Linux 4.2
.\"     commit f62185d0e283e9d311e3ac1020f159d95f0aab39
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR fallocate ()
returns zero.
On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor, or is not opened for writing.
.TP
.B EFBIG
.IR offset + len
exceeds the maximum file size.
.TP
.B EFBIG
.I mode
is
.BR FALLOC_FL_INSERT_RANGE ,
and the current file size+\fIlen\fP exceeds the maximum file size.
.TP
.B EINTR
A signal was caught during execution; see
.BR signal (7).
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I offset
was less than 0, or
.I len
.\" FIXME . (raise a kernel bug) Probably the len==0 case should be
.\" a no-op, rather than an error. That would be consistent with
.\" similar APIs for the len==0 case.
.\" See "Re: [PATCH] fallocate.2: add FALLOC_FL_PUNCH_HOLE flag definition"
.\" 21 Sep 2012
.\" http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.file-systems/48331/focus=1193526
was less than or equal to 0.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I mode
is
.BR FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE
and the range specified by
.I offset
plus
.I len
reaches or passes the end of the file.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I mode
is
.BR FALLOC_FL_INSERT_RANGE
and the range specified by
.I offset
reaches or passes the end of the file.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I mode
is
.BR FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE
or
.BR FALLOC_FL_INSERT_RANGE ,
but either
.I offset
or
.I len
is not a multiple of the filesystem block size.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I mode
contains one of
.B FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE
or
.B FALLOC_FL_INSERT_RANGE
and also other flags;
no other flags are permitted with
.BR FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE
or
.BR FALLOC_FL_INSERT_RANGE .
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I mode
is
.BR FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE
or
.BR FALLOC_FL_ZERO_RANGE
or
.BR FALLOC_FL_INSERT_RANGE ,
but the file referred to by
.I fd
is not a regular file.
.\" There was a inconsistency in 3.15-rc1, that should be resolved so that all
.\" filesystems use this error for this case. (Tytso says ex4 will change.)
.\" http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.file-systems.xfs.general/60485/focus=5521
.\" From: Michael Kerrisk (man-pages <mtk.manpages@...>
.\" Subject: Re: [PATCH v5 10/10] manpage: update FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE flag in fallocate
.\" Newsgroups: gmane.linux.man, gmane.linux.file-systems
.\" Date: 2014-04-17 13:40:05 GMT
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to a filesystem.
.TP
.B ENODEV
.I fd
does not refer to a regular file or a directory.
(If
.I fd
is a pipe or FIFO, a different error results.)
.TP
.B ENOSPC
There is not enough space left on the device containing the file
referred to by
.IR fd .
.TP
.B ENOSYS
This kernel does not implement
.BR fallocate ().
.TP
.B EOPNOTSUPP
The filesystem containing the file referred to by
.I fd
does not support this operation;
or the
.I mode
is not supported by the filesystem containing the file referred to by
.IR fd .
.TP
.B EPERM
The file referred to by
.I fd
is marked immutable (see
.BR chattr (1)).
.TP
.B EPERM
.I mode
specifies
.BR FALLOC_FL_PUNCH_HOLE
or
.BR FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE
or
.BR FALLOC_FL_INSERT_RANGE
and
the file referred to by
.I fd
is marked append-only
(see
.BR chattr (1)).
.TP
.B EPERM
The operation was prevented by a file seal; see
.BR fcntl (2).
.TP
.B ESPIPE
.I fd
refers to a pipe or FIFO.
.TP
.B ETXTBSY
.I mode
specifies
.BR FALLOC_FL_COLLAPSE_RANGE
or
.BR FALLOC_FL_INSERT_RANGE ,
but the file referred to by
.IR fd
is currently being executed.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR fallocate ()
is available on Linux since kernel 2.6.23.
Support is provided by glibc since version 2.10.
The
.BR FALLOC_FL_*
flags are defined in glibc headers only since version 2.18.
.\" See http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=14964
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR fallocate ()
is Linux-specific.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fallocate (1),
.BR ftruncate (2),
.BR posix_fadvise (3),
.BR posix_fallocate (3)
