.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" and Copyright (c) 2007, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified, 2003-05-26, Michael Kerrisk, <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH GETRESUID 2 2010-11-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getresuid, getresgid \- get real, effective and saved user/group IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getresuid(uid_t *" ruid ", uid_t *" euid ", uid_t *" suid );
.br
.BI "int getresgid(gid_t *" rgid ", gid_t *" egid ", gid_t *" sgid );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR getresuid ()
returns the real UID, the effective UID, and the saved set-user-ID
of the calling process, in the arguments
.IR ruid ,
.IR euid ,
and
.IR suid ,
respectively.
.BR getresgid ()
performs the analogous task for the process's group IDs.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
One of the arguments specified an address outside the calling program's
address space.
.SH VERSIONS
These system calls appeared on Linux starting with kernel 2.1.44.

The prototypes are given by glibc since version 2.3.2,
provided
.B _GNU_SOURCE
is defined.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These calls are nonstandard;
they also appear on HP-UX and some of the BSDs.
.SH NOTES
The original Linux
.BR getresuid ()
and
.BR getresgid ()
system calls supported only 16-bit user and group IDs.
Subsequently, Linux 2.4 added
.BR getresuid32 ()
and
.BR getresgid32 (),
supporting 32-bit IDs.
The glibc
.BR getresuid ()
and
.BR getresgid ()
wrapper functions transparently deal with the variations across kernel versions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getuid (2),
.BR setresuid (2),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR credentials (7)
