.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)getsockname.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:30:29 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sun Mar 28 21:26:46 1999 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.TH GETSOCKNAME 2 2015-12-28 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getsockname \- get socket name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int getsockname(int " sockfd ", struct sockaddr *" addr \
", socklen_t *" addrlen );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR getsockname ()
returns the current address to which the socket
.I sockfd
is bound, in the buffer pointed to by
.IR addr .
The
.I addrlen
argument should be initialized to indicate
the amount of space (in bytes) pointed to by
.IR addr .
On return it contains the actual size of the socket address.

The returned address is truncated if the buffer provided is too small;
in this case,
.I addrlen
will return a value greater than was supplied to the call.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
The argument
.I sockfd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
The
.I addr
argument points to memory not in a valid part of the
process address space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I addrlen
is invalid (e.g., is negative).
.TP
.B ENOBUFS
Insufficient resources were available in the system
to perform the operation.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
The file descriptor
.I sockfd
does not refer to a socket.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4, 4.4BSD
.RB ( getsockname ()
first appeared in 4.2BSD).
.\" SVr4 documents additional ENOMEM
.\" and ENOSR error codes.
.SH NOTES
The third argument of
.BR getsockname ()
is in reality an
.I "int\ *"
(and this is what 4.x BSD and libc4 and libc5 have).
Some POSIX confusion resulted in the present
.IR socklen_t ,
also used by glibc.
See also
.BR accept (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bind (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR getifaddrs (3),
.BR ip (7),
.BR socket (7),
.BR unix (7)
