.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     $Id: getsockopt.2,v 1.1 1999/05/24 14:57:04 freitag Exp $
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:19:32 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon Apr 22 02:29:06 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@infodrom.north.de)
.\" Modified Tue Aug 27 10:52:51 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Thu Jan 23 13:29:34 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Sun Mar 28 21:26:46 1999 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 1999 by Andi Kleen <ak@muc.de>.
.\"     Removed most stuff because it is in socket.7 now.
.\"
.TH GETSOCKOPT 2 2015-12-28 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getsockopt, setsockopt \- get and set options on sockets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#include <sys/types.h>" "          /* See NOTES */"
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int getsockopt(int " sockfd ", int " level ", int " optname ,
.BI "               void *" optval ", socklen_t *" optlen );
.BI "int setsockopt(int " sockfd ", int " level ", int " optname ,
.BI "               const void *" optval ", socklen_t " optlen );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR getsockopt ()
and
.BR setsockopt ()
manipulate options for the socket referred to by the file descriptor
.IR sockfd .
Options may exist at multiple
protocol levels; they are always present at the uppermost
socket level.

When manipulating socket options, the level at which the
option resides and the name of the option must be specified.
To manipulate options at the sockets API level,
.I level
is specified as
.BR SOL_SOCKET .
To manipulate options at any
other level the protocol number of the appropriate protocol
controlling the option is supplied.
For example,
to indicate that an option is to be interpreted by the
.B TCP
protocol,
.I level
should be set to the protocol number of
.BR TCP ;
see
.BR getprotoent (3).

The arguments
.I optval
and
.I optlen
are used to access option values for
.BR setsockopt ().
For
.BR getsockopt ()
they identify a buffer in which the value for the
requested option(s) are to be returned.
For
.BR getsockopt (),
.I optlen
is a value-result argument, initially containing the
size of the buffer pointed to by
.IR optval ,
and modified on return to indicate the actual size of
the value returned.
If no option value is to be supplied or returned,
.I optval
may be NULL.

.I Optname
and any specified options are passed uninterpreted to the appropriate
protocol module for interpretation.
The include file
.I <sys/socket.h>
contains definitions for socket level options, described below.
Options at
other protocol levels vary in format and name; consult the appropriate
entries in section 4 of the manual.

Most socket-level options utilize an
.I int
argument for
.IR optval .
For
.BR setsockopt (),
the argument should be nonzero to enable a boolean option, or zero if the
option is to be disabled.
.PP
For a description of the available socket options see
.BR socket (7)
and the appropriate protocol man pages.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned for the standard options.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.

Netfilter allows the programmer
to define custom socket options with associated handlers; for such
options, the return value on success is the value returned by the handler.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 10
.B EBADF
The argument
.I sockfd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
The address pointed to by
.I optval
is not in a valid part of the process address space.
For
.BR getsockopt (),
this error may also be returned if
.I optlen
is not in a valid part of the process address space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I optlen
invalid in
.BR setsockopt ().
In some cases this error can also occur for an invalid value in
.IR optval
(e.g., for the
.B IP_ADD_MEMBERSHIP
option described in
.BR ip (7)).
.TP
.B ENOPROTOOPT
The option is unknown at the level indicated.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
The file descriptor
.I sockfd
does not refer to a socket.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008,
SVr4, 4.4BSD (these system calls first appeared in 4.2BSD).
.\" SVr4 documents additional ENOMEM and ENOSR error codes, but does
.\" not document the
.\" .BR SO_SNDLOWAT ", " SO_RCVLOWAT ", " SO_SNDTIMEO ", " SO_RCVTIMEO
.\" options
.SH NOTES
POSIX.1 does not require the inclusion of
.IR <sys/types.h> ,
and this header file is not required on Linux.
However, some historical (BSD) implementations required this header
file, and portable applications are probably wise to include it.

The
.I optlen
argument of
.BR getsockopt ()
and
.BR setsockopt ()
is in reality an
.I "int [*]"
(and this is what 4.x BSD and libc4 and libc5 have).
Some POSIX confusion resulted in the present
.IR socklen_t ,
also used by glibc.
See also
.BR accept (2).
.SH BUGS
Several of the socket options should be handled at lower levels of the
system.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR getprotoent (3),
.BR protocols (5),
.BR ip (7),
.BR packet (7),
.BR socket (7),
.BR tcp (7),
.BR udp (7),
.BR unix (7)
