.\" Copyright 2003 Abhijit Menon-Sen <ams@wiw.org>
.\" and Copyright (C) 2008 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GETTID 2 2015-07-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
gettid \- get thread identification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B pid_t gettid(void);
.fi

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrapper for this system call; see NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR gettid ()
returns the caller's thread ID (TID).
In a single-threaded process, the thread ID
is equal to the process ID (PID, as returned by
.BR getpid (2)).
In a multithreaded process, all threads
have the same PID, but each one has a unique TID.
For further details, see the discussion of
.BR CLONE_THREAD
in
.BR clone (2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, returns the thread ID of the calling process.
.SH ERRORS
This call is always successful.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR gettid ()
system call first appeared on Linux in kernel 2.4.11.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR gettid ()
is Linux-specific and should not be used in programs that
are intended to be portable.
.SH NOTES
Glibc does not provide a wrapper for this system call; call it using
.BR syscall (2).
.\" FIXME . See http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6399
.\" "gettid() should have a wrapper"

The thread ID returned by this call is not the same thing as a
POSIX thread ID (i.e., the opaque value returned by
.BR pthread_self (3)).

In a new thread group created by a
.BR clone (2)
call that does not specify the
.BR CLONE_THREAD
flag (or, equivalently, a new process created by
.BR fork (2)),
the new process is a thread group leader,
and its thread group ID (the value returned by
.BR gettid (2))
is the same as its thread ID (the value returned by
.BR gettid ()).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR capget (2),
.BR clone (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR get_robust_list (2),
.BR gettid (2),
.\" .BR kcmp (2),
.BR ioprio_set (2),
.\" .BR move_pages (2),
.\" .BR migrate_pages (2),
.BR perf_event_open (2),
.\" .BR process_vm_readv (2),
.\" .BR ptrace (2),
.BR sched_setaffinity (2),
.BR sched_setparam (2),
.BR sched_setscheduler (2),
.BR tgkill (2),
.BR timer_create (2)
