.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Robert Love
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2005-07-19 Robert Love <rlove@rlove.org> - initial version
.\" 2006-02-07 mtk, minor changes
.\"
.TH INOTIFY_RM_WATCH 2 2010-10-15 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
inotify_rm_watch \- remove an existing watch from an inotify instance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/inotify.h>
.sp
.BI "int inotify_rm_watch(int " fd ", int " wd );
.\" Before glibc 2.10, the second argument was types as uint32_t.
.\" http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=7040
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR inotify_rm_watch ()
removes the watch associated with the watch descriptor
.I wd
from the inotify instance associated with the file descriptor
.IR fd .

Removing a watch causes an
.B IN_IGNORED
event to be generated for this watch descriptor.
(See
.BR inotify (7).)
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR inotify_rm_watch ()
returns zero.
On error, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the cause of the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The watch descriptor
.I wd
is not valid; or
.I fd
is not an inotify file descriptor.
.SH VERSIONS
Inotify was merged into the 2.6.13 Linux kernel.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This system call is Linux-specific.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR inotify_add_watch (2),
.BR inotify_init (2),
.BR inotify (7)
