.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified by Thomas Koenig <ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de>
.\" Modified 1993-07-23 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1993-07-25 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1995-11-01 by Michael Haardt
.\"  <michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de>
.\" Modified 1996-04-14 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"  [added some polishing contributed by Mike Battersby <mib@deakin.edu.au>]
.\" Modified 1996-07-21 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 1997-01-17 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 2001-12-18 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 2002-07-24 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"	Added note on historical rules enforced when an unprivileged process
.\"	sends a signal.
.\" Modified 2004-06-16 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added note on CAP_KILL
.\" Modified 2004-06-24 by aeb
.\" Modified, 2004-11-30, after idea from emmanuel.colbus@ensimag.imag.fr
.\"
.TH KILL 2 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
kill \- send signal to a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int kill(pid_t " pid ", int " sig );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR kill ():
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 1 || _XOPEN_SOURCE || _POSIX_SOURCE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR kill ()
system call
can be used to send any signal to any process group or process.
.PP
If \fIpid\fP is positive, then signal \fIsig\fP is sent to the
process with the ID specified by \fIpid\fP.
.PP
If \fIpid\fP equals 0, then \fIsig\fP is sent to every process in the
process group of the calling process.
.PP
If \fIpid\fP equals \-1, then \fIsig\fP is sent to every process
for which the calling process has permission to send signals,
except for process 1 (\fIinit\fP), but see below.
.PP
If \fIpid\fP is less than \-1, then \fIsig\fP is sent to every process
in the process group whose ID is \fI\-pid\fP.
.PP
If \fIsig\fP is 0, then no signal is sent, but error checking is still
performed;
this can be used to check for the existence of a process ID or
process group ID.

For a process to have permission to send a signal
it must either be privileged (under Linux: have the
.B CAP_KILL
capability), or the real or effective
user ID of the sending process must equal the real or
saved set-user-ID of the target process.
In the case of
.B SIGCONT
it suffices when the sending and receiving
processes belong to the same session.
(Historically, the rules were different; see NOTES.)
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success (at least one signal was sent), zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
An invalid signal was specified.
.TP
.B EPERM
The process does not have permission to send the signal
to any of the target processes.
.TP
.B ESRCH
The pid or process group does not exist.
Note that an existing process might be a zombie,
a process which already committed termination, but
has not yet been
.BR wait (2)ed
for.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4, 4.3BSD.
.SH NOTES
The only signals that can be sent to process ID 1, the
.I init
process, are those for which
.I init
has explicitly installed signal handlers.
This is done to assure the
system is not brought down accidentally.
.LP
POSIX.1 requires that \fIkill(\-1,sig)\fP send \fIsig\fP
to all processes that the calling process may send signals to,
except possibly for some implementation-defined system processes.
Linux allows a process to signal itself, but on Linux the call
\fIkill(\-1,sig)\fP does not signal the calling process.
.LP
POSIX.1 requires that if a process sends a signal to itself,
and the sending thread does not have the signal blocked,
and no other thread
has it unblocked or is waiting for it in
.BR sigwait (3),
at least one
unblocked signal must be delivered to the sending thread before the
.BR kill ()
returns.
.SS Linux notes
Across different kernel versions, Linux has enforced different rules
for the permissions required for an unprivileged process
to send a signal to another process.
.\" In the 0.* kernels things chopped and changed quite
.\" a bit - MTK, 24 Jul 02
In kernels 1.0 to 1.2.2, a signal could be sent if the
effective user ID of the sender matched effective user ID of the target,
or the real user ID of the sender matched the real user ID of the target.
From kernel 1.2.3 until 1.3.77, a signal could be sent if the
effective user ID of the sender matched either the real or effective
user ID of the target.
The current rules, which conform to POSIX.1, were adopted
in kernel 1.3.78.
.SH BUGS
In 2.6 kernels up to and including 2.6.7,
there was a bug that meant that when sending signals to a process group,
.BR kill ()
failed with the error
.B EPERM
if the caller did not have permission to send the signal to \fIany\fP (rather
than \fIall\fP) of the members of the process group.
Notwithstanding this error return, the signal was still delivered
to all of the processes for which the caller had permission to signal.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR _exit (2),
.BR killpg (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR tkill (2),
.BR exit (3),
.BR sigqueue (3),
.BR capabilities (7),
.BR credentials (7),
.BR signal (7)
