.\" Copyright (C) 2003 John Levon <levon@movementarian.org>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 2004-06-17 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH LOOKUP_DCOOKIE 2 2004-06-17 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
lookup_dcookie \- return a directory entry's path
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "int lookup_dcookie(u64 " cookie ", char *" buffer ", size_t " len );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Look up the full path of the directory entry specified by the value
.IR cookie .
The cookie is an opaque identifier uniquely identifying a particular
directory entry.
The buffer given is filled in with the full path of the directory entry.

For
.BR lookup_dcookie ()
to return successfully,
the kernel must still hold a cookie reference to the directory entry.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR lookup_dcookie ()
returns the length of the path string copied into the buffer.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
The buffer was not valid.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The kernel has no registered cookie/directory entry mappings at the
time of lookup, or the cookie does not refer to a valid directory entry.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The name could not fit in the buffer.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
The kernel could not allocate memory for the temporary buffer holding
the path.
.TP
.B EPERM
The process does not have the capability
.B CAP_SYS_ADMIN
required to look up cookie values.
.TP
.B ERANGE
The buffer was not large enough to hold the path of the directory entry.
.SH VERSIONS
Available since Linux 2.5.43.
The
.B ENAMETOOLONG
error return was added in 2.5.70.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR lookup_dcookie ()
is Linux-specific.
.SH NOTES
.BR lookup_dcookie ()
is a special-purpose system call, currently used only by the oprofile profiler.
It relies on a kernel driver to register cookies for directory entries.

The path returned may be suffixed by the string " (deleted)" if the directory
entry has been removed.
