.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Bert Hubert <ahu@ds9a.nl>
.\" and Copyright (C) 2007 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Created Sun Jun 3 17:23:32 2001 by bert hubert <ahu@ds9a.nl>
.\" Slightly adapted, following comments by Hugh Dickins, aeb, 2001-06-04.
.\" Modified, 20 May 2003, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" Modified, 30 Apr 2004, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" 2005-04-05 mtk, Fixed error descriptions
.\" 	after message from <gordon.jin@intel.com>
.\" 2007-01-08 mtk, rewrote various parts
.\"
.TH MINCORE 2 2008-04-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mincore \- determine whether pages are resident in memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mman.h>
.sp
.BI "int mincore(void *" addr ", size_t " length ", unsigned char *" vec );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR mincore ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR mincore ()
returns a vector that indicates whether pages
of the calling process's virtual memory are resident in core (RAM),
and so will not cause a disk access (page fault) if referenced.
The kernel returns residency information about the pages
starting at the address
.IR addr ,
and continuing for
.I length
bytes.

The
.I addr
argument must be a multiple of the system page size.
The
.I length
argument need not be a multiple of the page size,
but since residency information is returned for whole pages,
.I length
is effectively rounded up to the next multiple of the page size.
One may obtain the page size
.RB ( PAGE_SIZE )
using
.IR sysconf(_SC_PAGESIZE) .

The
.I vec
argument must point to an array containing at least
.I "(length+PAGE_SIZE\-1) / PAGE_SIZE"
bytes.
On return,
the least significant bit of each byte will be set if
the corresponding page is currently resident in memory,
and be clear otherwise.
(The settings of the other bits in each byte are undefined;
these bits are reserved for possible later use.)
Of course the information returned in
.I vec
is only a snapshot: pages that are not
locked in memory can come and go at any moment, and the contents of
.I vec
may already be stale by the time this call returns.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR mincore ()
returns zero.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.B EAGAIN
kernel is temporarily out of resources.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I vec
points to an invalid address.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I addr
is not a multiple of the page size.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
.I length
is greater than
.RI ( TASK_SIZE " \- " addr ).
(This could occur if a negative value is specified for
.IR length ,
since that value will be interpreted as a large
unsigned integer.)
In Linux 2.6.11 and earlier, the error
.B EINVAL
was returned for this condition.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
.I addr
to
.I addr
+
.I length
contained unmapped memory.
.SH VERSIONS
Available since Linux 2.3.99pre1 and glibc 2.2.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR mincore ()
is not specified in POSIX.1,
and it is not available on all UNIX implementations.
.\" It is on at least NetBSD, FreeBSD, OpenBSD, Solaris 8,
.\" AIX 5.1, SunOS 4.1
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" The
.\" .BR mincore ()
.\" function first appeared in 4.4BSD.
.SH BUGS
Before kernel 2.6.21,
.BR mincore ()
did not return correct information for
.B MAP_PRIVATE
mappings, or for nonlinear mappings (established using
.BR remap_file_pages (2)).
.\" Linux (up to now, 2.6.5),
.\" .B mincore
.\" does not return correct information for MAP_PRIVATE mappings:
.\" for a MAP_PRIVATE file mapping,
.\" .B mincore
.\" returns the residency of the file pages, rather than any
.\" modified process-private pages that have been copied on write;
.\" for a MAP_PRIVATE mapping of
.\" .IR /dev/zero ,
.\" .B mincore
.\" always reports pages as nonresident;
.\" and for a MAP_PRIVATE, MAP_ANONYMOUS mapping,
.\" .B mincore
.\" always fails with the error
.\" .BR ENOMEM .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mlock (2),
.BR mmap (2)
