.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" and Copyright (C) 1995 Michael Shields <shields@tembel.org>.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and author of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 1996-10-22 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1997-05-31 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 2003-08-24 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 2004-08-16 by Andi Kleen <ak@muc.de>
.\" 2007-06-02, mtk: Fairly substantial rewrites and additions, and
.\" a much improved example program.
.\"
.\" FIXME The following protection flags need documenting:
.\"         PROT_SEM
.\"         PROT_GROWSDOWN
.\"         PROT_GROWSUP
.\"         PROT_SAO (PowerPC)
.\"
.TH MPROTECT 2 2015-07-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mprotect \- set protection on a region of memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/mman.h>
.sp
.BI "int mprotect(void *" addr ", size_t " len ", int " prot );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR mprotect ()
changes protection for the calling process's memory page(s)
containing any part of the address range in the
interval [\fIaddr\fP,\ \fIaddr\fP+\fIlen\fP\-1].
.I addr
must be aligned to a page boundary.

If the calling process tries to access memory in a manner
that violates the protection, then the kernel generates a
.B SIGSEGV
signal for the process.
.PP
.I prot
is either
.B PROT_NONE
or a bitwise-or of the other values in the following list:
.TP 1.1i
.B PROT_NONE
The memory cannot be accessed at all.
.TP
.B PROT_READ
The memory can be read.
.TP
.B PROT_WRITE
The memory can be modified.
.TP
.B PROT_EXEC
The memory can be executed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR mprotect ()
returns zero.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
The memory cannot be given the specified access.
This can happen, for example, if you
.BR mmap (2)
a file to which you have read-only access, then ask
.BR mprotect ()
to mark it
.BR PROT_WRITE .
.TP
.B EINVAL
\fIaddr\fP is not a valid pointer,
or not a multiple of the system page size.
.\" Or: both PROT_GROWSUP and PROT_GROWSDOWN were specified in 'prot'.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Internal kernel structures could not be allocated.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Addresses in the range
.RI [ addr ,
.IR addr + len \-1]
are invalid for the address space of the process,
or specify one or more pages that are not mapped.
(Before kernel 2.4.19, the error
.BR EFAULT
was incorrectly produced for these cases.)
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Changing the protection of a memory region would result in the total number of
mappings with distinct attributes (e.g., read versus read/write protection)
exceeding the allowed maximum.
.\" I.e., the number of VMAs would exceed the 64kB maximum
(For example, making the protection of a range
.BR PROT_READ
in the middle of a region currently protected as
.BR PROT_READ|PROT_WRITE
would result in three mappings:
two read/write mappings at each end and a read-only mapping in the middle.)
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4.
.\" SVr4 defines an additional error
.\" code EAGAIN. The SVr4 error conditions don't map neatly onto Linux's.
POSIX says that the behavior of
.BR mprotect ()
is unspecified if it is applied to a region of memory that
was not obtained via
.BR mmap (2).
.SH NOTES
On Linux it is always permissible to call
.BR mprotect ()
on any address in a process's address space (except for the
kernel vsyscall area).
In particular it can be used
to change existing code mappings to be writable.

Whether
.B PROT_EXEC
has any effect different from
.B PROT_READ
depends on processor architecture, kernel version, and process state.
If
.B READ_IMPLIES_EXEC
is set in the process's personality flags (see
.BR personality (2)),
specifying
.B PROT_READ
will implicitly add
.BR PROT_EXEC.

On some hardware architectures (e.g., i386),
.B PROT_WRITE
implies
.BR PROT_READ .

POSIX.1 says that an implementation may permit access
other than that specified in
.IR prot ,
but at a minimum can allow write access only if
.B PROT_WRITE
has been set, and must not allow any access if
.B PROT_NONE
has been set.
.SH EXAMPLE
.\" sigaction.2 refers to this example
.PP
The program below allocates four pages of memory, makes the third
of these pages read-only, and then executes a loop that walks upward
through the allocated region modifying bytes.

An example of what we might see when running the program is the
following:

.in +4n
.nf
.RB "$" " ./a.out"
Start of region:        0x804c000
Got SIGSEGV at address: 0x804e000
.fi
.in
.SS Program source
\&
.nf
#include <unistd.h>
#include <signal.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <malloc.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <errno.h>
#include <sys/mman.h>

#define handle_error(msg) \\
    do { perror(msg); exit(EXIT_FAILURE); } while (0)

static char *buffer;

static void
handler(int sig, siginfo_t *si, void *unused)
{
    printf("Got SIGSEGV at address: 0x%lx\\n",
            (long) si\->si_addr);
    exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
}

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    char *p;
    int pagesize;
    struct sigaction sa;

    sa.sa_flags = SA_SIGINFO;
    sigemptyset(&sa.sa_mask);
    sa.sa_sigaction = handler;
    if (sigaction(SIGSEGV, &sa, NULL) == \-1)
        handle_error("sigaction");

    pagesize = sysconf(_SC_PAGE_SIZE);
    if (pagesize == \-1)
        handle_error("sysconf");

    /* Allocate a buffer aligned on a page boundary;
       initial protection is PROT_READ | PROT_WRITE */

    buffer = memalign(pagesize, 4 * pagesize);
    if (buffer == NULL)
        handle_error("memalign");

    printf("Start of region:        0x%lx\\n", (long) buffer);

    if (mprotect(buffer + pagesize * 2, pagesize,
                PROT_READ) == \-1)
        handle_error("mprotect");

    for (p = buffer ; ; )
        *(p++) = \(aqa\(aq;

    printf("Loop completed\\n");     /* Should never happen */
    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mmap (2),
.BR sysconf (3)
