'\" t
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MQ_GETSETATTR 2 2012-07-13 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mq_getsetattr \- get/set message queue attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <mqueue.h>
.sp
.BI "int mq_getsetattr(mqd_t " mqdes ", struct mq_attr *" newattr ","
.BI "                 struct mq_attr *" oldattr );
.fi

.IR Note :
There is no glibc wrapper for this system call; see NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Do not use this system call.

This is the low-level system call used to implement
.BR mq_getattr (3)
and
.BR mq_setattr (3).
For an explanation of how this system call operates,
see the description of
.BR mq_setattr (3).
.SH CONFORMING TO
This interface is nonstandard; avoid its use.
.SH NOTES
Glibc does not provide a wrapper for this system call; call it using
.BR syscall (2).
(Actually, never call it unless you are writing a C library!)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mq_getattr (3),
.BR mq_overview (7)
