.\" Copyright 1993 Giorgio Ciucci (giorgio@crcc.it)
.\" and Copyright 2004, 2005 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 08:11:14 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sun Feb 18 01:59:29 2001 by Andries E. Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified, 27 May 2004, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added notes on CAP_IPC_OWNER requirement
.\" Modified, 17 Jun 2004, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added notes on CAP_SYS_ADMIN requirement for IPC_SET and IPC_RMID
.\" Modified, 11 Nov 2004, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"	Language and formatting clean-ups
.\"	Added msqid_ds and ipc_perm structure definitions
.\" 2005-08-02, mtk: Added IPC_INFO, MSG_INFO, MSG_STAT descriptions
.\"
.TH MSGCTL 2 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
msgctl \- System V message control operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/ipc.h>
.B #include <sys/msg.h>

.BI "int msgctl(int " msqid ", int " cmd ", struct msqid_ds *" buf );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR msgctl ()
performs the control operation specified by
.I cmd
on the System\ V message queue with identifier
.IR msqid .
.PP
The
.I msqid_ds
data structure is defined in \fI<sys/msg.h>\fP as follows:
.nf
.in +4n

struct msqid_ds {
    struct ipc_perm msg_perm;     /* Ownership and permissions */
    time_t          msg_stime;    /* Time of last msgsnd(2) */
    time_t          msg_rtime;    /* Time of last msgrcv(2) */
    time_t          msg_ctime;    /* Time of last change */
    unsigned long   __msg_cbytes; /* Current number of bytes in
                                     queue (nonstandard) */
    msgqnum_t       msg_qnum;     /* Current number of messages
                                     in queue */
    msglen_t        msg_qbytes;   /* Maximum number of bytes
                                     allowed in queue */
    pid_t           msg_lspid;    /* PID of last msgsnd(2) */
    pid_t           msg_lrpid;    /* PID of last msgrcv(2) */
};
.in
.fi
.PP
The
.I ipc_perm
structure is defined as follows
(the highlighted fields are settable using
.BR IPC_SET ):
.PP
.nf
.in +4n
struct ipc_perm {
    key_t          __key;       /* Key supplied to msgget(2) */
    uid_t          \fBuid\fP;         /* Effective UID of owner */
    gid_t          \fBgid\fP;         /* Effective GID of owner */
    uid_t          cuid;        /* Effective UID of creator */
    gid_t          cgid;        /* Effective GID of creator */
    unsigned short \fBmode\fP;        /* Permissions */
    unsigned short __seq;       /* Sequence number */
};
.in
.fi
.PP
Valid values for
.I cmd
are:
.TP
.B IPC_STAT
Copy information from the kernel data structure associated with
.I msqid
into the
.I msqid_ds
structure pointed to by
.IR buf .
The caller must have read permission on the message queue.
.TP
.B IPC_SET
Write the values of some members of the
.I msqid_ds
structure pointed to by
.I buf
to the kernel data structure associated with this message queue,
updating also its
.I msg_ctime
member.
The following members of the structure are updated:
.IR msg_qbytes ,
.IR msg_perm.uid ,
.IR msg_perm.gid ,
and (the least significant 9 bits of)
.IR msg_perm.mode .
The effective UID of the calling process must match the owner
.RI ( msg_perm.uid )
or creator
.RI ( msg_perm.cuid )
of the message queue, or the caller must be privileged.
Appropriate privilege (Linux: the
.B CAP_SYS_RESOURCE
capability) is required to raise the
.I msg_qbytes
value beyond the system parameter
.BR MSGMNB .
.TP
.B IPC_RMID
Immediately remove the message queue,
awakening all waiting reader and writer processes (with an error
return and
.I errno
set to
.BR EIDRM ).
The calling process must have appropriate privileges
or its effective user ID must be either that of the creator or owner
of the message queue.
The third argument to
.BR msgctl ()
is ignored in this case.
.TP
.BR IPC_INFO " (Linux-specific)"
Return information about system-wide message queue limits and
parameters in the structure pointed to by
.IR buf .
This structure is of type
.I msginfo
(thus, a cast is required),
defined in
.I <sys/msg.h>
if the
.B _GNU_SOURCE
feature test macro is defined:
.nf
.in +4n

struct msginfo {
    int msgpool; /* Size in kibibytes of buffer pool
                    used to hold message data;
                    unused within kernel */
    int msgmap;  /* Maximum number of entries in message
                    map; unused within kernel */
    int msgmax;  /* Maximum number of bytes that can be
                    written in a single message */
    int msgmnb;  /* Maximum number of bytes that can be
                    written to queue; used to initialize
                    msg_qbytes during queue creation
                    (msgget(2)) */
    int msgmni;  /* Maximum number of message queues */
    int msgssz;  /* Message segment size;
                    unused within kernel */
    int msgtql;  /* Maximum number of messages on all queues
                    in system; unused within kernel */
    unsigned short int msgseg;
                 /* Maximum number of segments;
                    unused within kernel */
};

.in
.fi
The
.IR msgmni ,
.IR msgmax ,
and
.I msgmnb
settings can be changed via
.I /proc
files of the same name; see
.BR proc (5)
for details.
.TP
.BR MSG_INFO " (Linux-specific)"
Return a
.I msginfo
structure containing the same information as for
.BR IPC_INFO ,
except that the following fields are returned with information
about system resources consumed by message queues: the
.I msgpool
field returns the number of message queues that currently exist
on the system; the
.I msgmap
field returns the total number of messages in all queues
on the system; and the
.I msgtql
field returns the total number of bytes in all messages
in all queues on the system.
.TP
.BR MSG_STAT " (Linux-specific)"
Return a
.I msqid_ds
structure as for
.BR IPC_STAT .
However, the
.I msqid
argument is not a queue identifier, but instead an index into
the kernel's internal array that maintains information about
all message queues on the system.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR IPC_STAT ,
.BR IPC_SET ,
and
.B IPC_RMID
return 0.
A successful
.B IPC_INFO
or
.B MSG_INFO
operation returns the index of the highest used entry in the
kernel's internal array recording information about all
message queues.
(This information can be used with repeated
.B MSG_STAT
operations to obtain information about all queues on the system.)
A successful
.B MSG_STAT
operation returns the identifier of the queue whose index was given in
.IR msqid .

On error, \-1 is returned with
.I errno
indicating the error.
.SH ERRORS
On failure,
.I errno
is set to one of the following:
.TP
.B EACCES
The argument
.I cmd
is equal to
.B IPC_STAT
or
.BR MSG_STAT ,
but the calling process does not have read permission on the message queue
.IR msqid ,
and does not have the
.B CAP_IPC_OWNER
capability.
.TP
.B EFAULT
The argument
.I cmd
has the value
.B IPC_SET
or
.BR IPC_STAT ,
but the address pointed to by
.I buf
isn't accessible.
.TP
.B EIDRM
The message queue was removed.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid value for
.I cmd
or
.IR msqid .
Or: for a
.B MSG_STAT
operation, the index value specified in
.I msqid
referred to an array slot that is currently unused.
.TP
.B EPERM
The argument
.I cmd
has the value
.B IPC_SET
or
.BR IPC_RMID ,
but the effective user ID of the calling process is not the creator
(as found in
.IR msg_perm.cuid )
or the owner
(as found in
.IR msg_perm.uid )
of the message queue,
and the caller is not privileged (Linux: does not have the
.B CAP_SYS_ADMIN
capability).
.TP
.B EPERM
An attempt
.RB ( IPC_SET )
was made to increase
.I msg_qbytes
beyond the system parameter
.BR MSGMNB ,
but the caller is not privileged (Linux: does not have the
.B CAP_SYS_RESOURCE
capability).
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4.
.\" SVID does not document the EIDRM error condition.
.SH NOTES
The inclusion of
.I <sys/types.h>
and
.I <sys/ipc.h>
isn't required on Linux or by any version of POSIX.
However,
some old implementations required the inclusion of these header files,
and the SVID also documented their inclusion.
Applications intended to be portable to such old systems may need
to include these header files.
.\" Like Linux, the FreeBSD man pages still document
.\" the inclusion of these header files.

The
.BR IPC_INFO ,
.B MSG_STAT
and
.B MSG_INFO
operations are used by the
.BR ipcs (1)
program to provide information on allocated resources.
In the future these may modified or moved to a
.I /proc
filesystem interface.

Various fields in the \fIstruct msqid_ds\fP were
typed as
.I short
under Linux 2.2
and have become
.I long
under Linux 2.4.
To take advantage of this,
a recompilation under glibc-2.1.91 or later should suffice.
(The kernel distinguishes old and new calls by an
.B IPC_64
flag in
.IR cmd .)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR msgget (2),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR capabilities (7),
.BR mq_overview (7),
.BR svipc (7)
