.\" Copyright 1993 Giorgio Ciucci <giorgio@crcc.it>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Added correction due to Nick Duffek <nsd@bbc.com>, aeb, 960426
.\" Modified Wed Nov  6 04:00:31 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified, 8 Jan 2003, Michael Kerrisk, <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"	Removed EIDRM from errors - that can't happen...
.\" Modified, 27 May 2004, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added notes on capability requirements
.\" Modified, 11 Nov 2004, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"	Language and formatting clean-ups
.\"	Added notes on /proc files
.\"
.TH MSGGET 2 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
msgget \- get a System V message queue identifier
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/ipc.h>
.B #include <sys/msg.h>

.BI "int msgget(key_t " key ", int " msgflg );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR msgget ()
system call returns the System\ V message queue identifier associated
with the value of the
.I key
argument.
A new message queue is created if
.I key
has the value
.B IPC_PRIVATE
or
.I key
isn't
.BR IPC_PRIVATE ,
no message queue with the given key
.I key
exists, and
.B IPC_CREAT
is specified in
.IR msgflg .
.PP
If
.I msgflg
specifies both
.B IPC_CREAT
and
.B IPC_EXCL
and a message queue already exists for
.IR key ,
then
.BR msgget ()
fails with
.I errno
set to
.BR EEXIST .
(This is analogous to the effect of the combination
.B O_CREAT | O_EXCL
for
.BR open (2).)
.PP
Upon creation, the least significant bits of the argument
.I msgflg
define the permissions of the message queue.
These permission bits have the same format and semantics
as the permissions specified for the
.I mode
argument of
.BR open (2).
(The execute permissions are not used.)
.PP
If a new message queue is created,
then its associated data structure
.I msqid_ds
(see
.BR msgctl (2))
is initialized as follows:
.IP
.I msg_perm.cuid
and
.I msg_perm.uid
are set to the effective user ID of the calling process.
.IP
.I msg_perm.cgid
and
.I msg_perm.gid
are set to the effective group ID of the calling process.
.IP
The least significant 9 bits of
.I msg_perm.mode
are set to the least significant 9 bits of
.IR msgflg .
.IP
.IR msg_qnum ,
.IR msg_lspid ,
.IR msg_lrpid ,
.IR msg_stime ,
and
.I msg_rtime
are set to 0.
.IP
.I msg_ctime
is set to the current time.
.IP
.I msg_qbytes
is set to the system limit
.BR MSGMNB .
.PP
If the message queue already exists the permissions are
verified, and a check is made to see if it is marked for
destruction.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, the return value will be the message queue identifier (a
nonnegative integer), otherwise \-1
with
.I errno
indicating the error.
.SH ERRORS
On failure,
.I errno
is set to one of the following values:
.TP
.B EACCES
A message queue exists for
.IR key ,
but the calling process does not have permission to access the queue,
and does not have the
.B CAP_IPC_OWNER
capability.
.TP
.B EEXIST
.B IPC_CREAT
and
.BR IPC_EXCL
were specified in
.IR msgflg ,
but a message queue already exists for
.IR key .
.TP
.B ENOENT
No message queue exists for
.I key
and
.I msgflg
did not specify
.BR IPC_CREAT .
.TP
.B ENOMEM
A message queue has to be created but the system does not have enough
memory for the new data structure.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
A message queue has to be created but the system limit for the maximum
number of message queues
.RB ( MSGMNI )
would be exceeded.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4.
.SH NOTES
The inclusion of
.I <sys/types.h>
and
.I <sys/ipc.h>
isn't required on Linux or by any version of POSIX.
However,
some old implementations required the inclusion of these header files,
and the SVID also documented their inclusion.
Applications intended to be portable to such old systems may need
to include these header files.
.\" Like Linux, the FreeBSD man pages still document
.\" the inclusion of these header files.

.B IPC_PRIVATE
isn't a flag field but a
.I key_t
type.
If this special value is used for
.IR key ,
the system call ignores everything but the least significant 9 bits of
.I msgflg
and creates a new message queue (on success).
.PP
The following is a system limit on message queue resources affecting a
.BR msgget ()
call:
.TP
.B MSGMNI
System-wide limit on the number of message queues.
Before Linux 3.19,
.\" commit 0050ee059f7fc86b1df2527aaa14ed5dc72f9973
the default value for this limit was calculated using a formula
based on available system memory.
Since Linux 3.19, the default value is 32,000.
On Linux, this limit can be read and modified via
.IR /proc/sys/kernel/msgmni .
.SS Linux notes
Until version 2.3.20, Linux would return
.B EIDRM
for a
.BR msgget ()
on a message queue scheduled for deletion.
.SH BUGS
The name choice
.B IPC_PRIVATE
was perhaps unfortunate,
.B IPC_NEW
would more clearly show its function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR ftok (3),
.BR capabilities (7),
.BR mq_overview (7),
.BR svipc (7)
