.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PUBLIC_DOMAIN)
.\" This text is in the public domain.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" FIXME . The description of nfsservctl() on this page
.\" is woefully thin.
.\"
.TH NFSSERVCTL 2 2015-05-07 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
nfsservctl \- syscall interface to kernel nfs daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <linux/nfsd/syscall.h>
.sp
.BI "long nfsservctl(int " cmd ", struct nfsctl_arg *" argp ,
.BI "                union nfsctl_res *" resp );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Note :
Since Linux 3.1, this system call no longer exists.
It has been replaced by a set of files in the
.I nfsd
filesystem; see
.BR nfsd (7).

.nf
/*
 * These are the commands understood by nfsctl().
 */
#define NFSCTL_SVC          0    /* This is a server process. */
#define NFSCTL_ADDCLIENT    1    /* Add an NFS client. */
#define NFSCTL_DELCLIENT    2    /* Remove an NFS client. */
#define NFSCTL_EXPORT       3    /* Export a filesystem. */
#define NFSCTL_UNEXPORT     4    /* Unexport a filesystem. */
#define NFSCTL_UGIDUPDATE   5    /* Update a client's UID/GID map
                                    (only in Linux 2.4.x and earlier). */
#define NFSCTL_GETFH        6    /* Get a file handle (used by mountd)
                                    (only in Linux 2.4.x and earlier). */

struct nfsctl_arg {
    int                       ca_version;     /* safeguard */
    union {
        struct nfsctl_svc     u_svc;
        struct nfsctl_client  u_client;
        struct nfsctl_export  u_export;
        struct nfsctl_uidmap  u_umap;
        struct nfsctl_fhparm  u_getfh;
        unsigned int          u_debug;
    } u;
}

union nfsctl_res {
        struct knfs_fh          cr_getfh;
        unsigned int            cr_debug;
};
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH CONFORMING TO
This call is Linux-specific.
