.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt <drew@cs.colorado.edu>, March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1996-11-04 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2001-06-04 by aeb
.\" Modified 2004-05-27 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH NICE 2 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
nice \- change process priority
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int nice(int " inc );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR nice ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR nice ()
adds
.I inc
to the nice value for the calling process.
(A higher nice value means a low priority.)
Only the super\%user may specify a negative increment,
or priority increase.
The range for nice values is described in
.BR getpriority (2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, the new nice value is returned (but see NOTES below).
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPERM
The calling process attempted to increase its priority by
supplying a negative
.I inc
but has insufficient privileges.
Under Linux, the
.B CAP_SYS_NICE
capability is required.
(But see the discussion of the
.B RLIMIT_NICE
resource limit in
.BR setrlimit (2).)
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4, 4.3BSD.
However, the Linux and (g)libc
(earlier than glibc 2.2.4) return value is nonstandard, see below.
SVr4 documents an additional
.B EINVAL
error code.
.SH NOTES
SUSv2 and POSIX.1 specify that
.BR nice ()
should return the new nice value.
However, the Linux system call and the
.BR nice ()
library function provided in older versions of (g)libc
(earlier than glibc 2.2.4) return 0 on success.
The new nice value can be found using
.BR getpriority (2).

Since glibc 2.2.4,
.BR nice ()
is implemented as a library function that calls
.BR getpriority (2)
to obtain the new nice value to be returned to the caller.
With this implementation,
a successful call can legitimately return \-1.
To reliably detect an error, set
.I errno
to 0 before the call, and check its value when
.BR nice ()
returns \-1.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nice (1),
.BR renice (1),
.BR fork (2),
.BR getpriority (2),
.BR setpriority (2),
.BR capabilities (7),
.BR sched (7)
