.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:48:00 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby (mib@deakin.edu.au)
.\" Modified 2000 by aeb, following Michael Kerrisk
.\"
.TH PAUSE 2 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pause \- wait for signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int pause(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pause ()
causes the calling process (or thread) to sleep
until a signal is delivered that either terminates the process or causes
the invocation of a signal-catching function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR pause ()
returns only when a signal was caught and the
signal-catching function returned.
In this case,
.BR pause ()
returns \-1, and
.I errno
is set to
.\" .BR ERESTARTNOHAND .
.BR EINTR .
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINTR
a signal was caught and the signal-catching function returned.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4, 4.3BSD.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kill (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR sigsuspend (2)
