.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\" and Copyright (C) 2016, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Created   Sat Aug 21 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" typo corrected, aeb, 950825
.\" added layout change from joey, 960722
.\" changed prototype, documented 0xffffffff, aeb, 030101
.\" Modified 2004-11-03 patch from Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\"
.TH PERSONALITY 2 2015-12-28 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
personality \- set the process execution domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/personality.h>
.sp
.BI "int personality(unsigned long " persona );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Linux supports different execution domains, or personalities, for each
process.
Among other things, execution domains tell Linux how to map
signal numbers into signal actions.
The execution domain system allows
Linux to provide limited support for binaries compiled under other
UNIX-like operating systems.

If
.I persona
is not
0xffffffff, then
.BR personality ()
sets the caller's execution domain to the value specified by
.IR persona .
Specifying
.IR persona
as 0xffffffff provides a way of retrieving
the current persona without changing it.

A list of the available execution domains can be found in
.IR <sys/personality.h> .
The execution domain is a 32-bit value in which the top three
bytes are set aside for flags that cause the kernel to modify the
behavior of certain system calls so as to emulate historical or
architectural quirks.
The least significant byte is value defining the personality
the kernel should assume.
The flag values are as follows:
.TP
.BR ADDR_COMPAT_LAYOUT " (since Linux 2.6.9)"
With this flag set, provide legacy virtual address space layout.
.TP
.BR ADDR_NO_RANDOMIZE " (since Linux 2.6.12)"
With this flag set, disable address-space-layout randomization.
.TP
.BR ADDR_LIMIT_32BIT " (since Linux 2.2)"
Limit the address space to 32 bits.
.TP
.BR ADDR_LIMIT_3GB " (since Linux 2.4.0)"
With this flag set, use 0xc0000000 as the offset at which to search
a virtual memory chunk on
.BR mmap (2);
otherwise use 0xffffe000.
.TP
.BR FDPIC_FUNCPTRS " (since Linux 2.6.11)"
User-space function pointers to signal handlers point
(on certain architectures) to descriptors.
.TP
.BR MMAP_PAGE_ZERO " (since Linux 2.4.0)"
Map page 0 as read-only
(to support binaries that depend on this SVr4 behavior).
.TP
.BR READ_IMPLIES_EXEC " (since Linux 2.6.8)"
With this flag set,
.BR PROT_READ
implies
.BR PROT_EXEC
for
.BR mmap (2).
.TP
.BR SHORT_INODE " (since Linux 2.4.0)"
No effects(?).
.TP
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS " (since Linux 1.2.0)"
With this flag set,
.BR select (2),
.BR pselect (2),
and
.BR ppoll (2)
do not modify the returned timeout argument when
interrupted by a signal handler.
.TP
.BR UNAME26 " (since Linux 3.1)"
Have
.BR uname (2)
report a 2.6.40+ version number rather than a 3.x version number.
Added as a stopgap measure to support broken applications that
could not handle the kernel version-numbering switch from 2.6.x to 3.x.
.TP
.BR WHOLE_SECONDS " (since Linux 1.2.0)"
No effects(?).
.PP
The available execution domains are:
.TP
.BR PER_BSD " (since Linux 1.2.0)"
BSD. (No effects.)
.TP
.BR PER_HPUX " (since Linux 2.4)"
Support for 32-bit HP/UX.
This support was never complete, and was dropped so that since Linux 4.0,
this value has no effect.
.TP
.BR PER_IRIX32 " (since Linux 2.2)"
IRIX 5 32-bit.
Never fully functional; support dropped in Linux 2.6.27.
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS .
.TP
.BR PER_IRIX64 " (since Linux 2.2)"
IRIX 6 64-bit.
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS ;
otherwise no effects.
.TP
.BR PER_IRIXN32 " (since Linux 2.2)"
IRIX 6 new 32-bit.
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS ;
otherwise no effects.
.TP
.BR PER_ISCR4 " (since Linux 1.2.0)"
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS ;
otherwise no effects.
.TP
.BR PER_LINUX " (since Linux 1.2.0)"
Linux.
.TP
.BR PER_LINUX32 " (since Linux 2.2)"
[To be documented.]
.TP
.BR PER_LINUX32_3GB " (since Linux 2.4)"
Implies
.BR ADDR_LIMIT_3GB .
.TP
.BR PER_LINUX_32BIT " (since Linux 2.0)"
Implies
.BR ADDR_LIMIT_32BIT .
.TP
.BR PER_LINUX_FDPIC " (since Linux 2.6.11)"
Implies
.BR FDPIC_FUNCPTRS .
.TP
.BR PER_OSF4 " (since Linux 2.4)"
OSF/1 v4.
On alpha,
.\" Following is from a comment in arch/alpha/kernel/osf_sys.c
clear top 32 bits of iov_len in the user's buffer for
compatibility with old versions of OSF/1 where iov_len
was defined as.
.IR int .
.TP
.BR PER_OSR5 " (since Linux 2.4)"
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS
and
.BR WHOLE_SECONDS ;
otherwise no effects.
.TP
.BR PER_RISCOS " (since Linux 2.2)"
[To be documented.]
.TP
.BR PER_SCOSVR3 " (since Linux 1.2.0)"
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS ,
.BR WHOLE_SECONDS ,
and
.BR SHORT_INODE ;
otherwise no effects.
.TP
.BR PER_SOLARIS " (since Linux 2.4)"
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS ;
otherwise no effects.
.TP
.BR PER_SUNOS " (since Linux 2.4.0)"
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS .
Divert library and dynamic linker searches to
.IR /usr/gnemul .
Buggy, largely unmaintained, and almost entirely unused;
support was removed in Linux 2.6.26.
.TP
.BR PER_SVR3 " (since Linux 1.2.0)"
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS
and
.BR SHORT_INODE ;
otherwise no effects.
.TP
.BR PER_SVR4 " (since Linux 1.2.0)"
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS
and
.BR MMAP_PAGE_ZERO ;
otherwise no effects.
.TP
.BR PER_UW7 " (since Linux 2.4)"
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS
and
.BR MMAP_PAGE_ZERO ;
otherwise no effects.
.TP
.BR PER_WYSEV386 " (since Linux 1.2.0)"
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS
and
.BR SHORT_INODE ;
otherwise no effects.
.TP
.BR PER_XENIX " (since Linux 1.2.0)"
Implies
.BR STICKY_TIMEOUTS
and
.BR SHORT_INODE ;
otherwise no effects.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, the previous
.I persona
is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
The kernel was unable to change the personality.
.SH VERSIONS
This system call first appeared in Linux 1.1.20
(and thus first in a stable kernel release with Linux 1.2.0);
library support was added in glibc 2.3.
.\" personality wrapper first appeared in glibc 1.90,
.\" <sys/personality.h> was added later in 2.2.91.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR personality ()
is Linux-specific and should not be used in programs intended to
be portable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR setarch (8)
