.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2004, Michael Kerrisk
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2004-05-40 Created by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" 2004-10-05 aeb, minor correction
.\"
.TH READAHEAD 2 2014-03-15 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
readahead \- initiate file readahead into page cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.sp
.BI "ssize_t readahead(int " fd ", off64_t " offset ", size_t " count );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR readahead ()
initiates readahead on a file so that subsequent reads from that file will
be satisfied from the cache, and not block on disk I/O
(assuming the readahead was initiated early enough and that other activity
on the system did not in the meantime flush pages from the cache).

The
.I fd
argument is a file descriptor identifying the file which is
to be read.
The
.I offset
argument specifies the starting point from which data is to be read
and
.I count
specifies the number of bytes to be read.
I/O is performed in whole pages, so that
.I offset
is effectively rounded down to a page boundary
and bytes are read up to the next page boundary greater than or
equal to
.IR "(offset+count)" .
.BR readahead ()
does not read beyond the end of the file.
The file offset of the open file description referred to by
.I fd
is left unchanged.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR readahead ()
returns 0; on failure, \-1 is returned, with
.I errno
set to indicate the cause of the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor or is not open for reading.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I fd
does not refer to a file type to which
.BR readahead ()
can be applied.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR readahead ()
system call appeared in Linux 2.4.13;
glibc support has been provided since version 2.3.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The
.BR readahead ()
system call is Linux-specific, and its use should be avoided
in portable applications.
.SH NOTES
On some 32-bit architectures,
the calling signature for this system call differs,
for the reasons described in
.BR syscall (2).
.SH BUGS
.BR readahead ()
attempts to schedule the reads in the background and return immediately.
However, it may block while it reads the filesystem metadata needed
to locate the requested blocks.
This occurs frequently with ext[234] on large files
using indirect blocks instead of extents,
giving the appearance that the call blocks until the requested data has
been read.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lseek (2),
.BR madvise (2),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR posix_fadvise (2),
.BR read (2)
