.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" Copyright (C) 2015 Andrew Lutomirski
.\" Author: Kent Yoder
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" This file is distributed according to the GNU General Public License.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SET_THREAD_AREA 2 2015-02-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
set_thread_area \- set a GDT entry for thread-local storage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.B #include <asm/ldt.h>

.BI "int get_thread_area(struct user_desc *" u_info );
.BI "int set_thread_area(struct user_desc *" u_info );
.fi

.IR Note :
There are no glibc wrappers for these system calls; see NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Linux dedicates three global descriptor table (GDT) entries for
thread-local storage.
For more information about the GDT, see the
Intel Software Developer's Manual or the AMD Architecture Programming Manual.

Both of these system calls take an argument that is a pointer
to a structure of the following type:

.in +4n
struct user_desc {
    unsigned int  entry_number;
    unsigned long base_addr;
    unsigned int  limit;
    unsigned int  seg_32bit:1;
    unsigned int  contents:2;
    unsigned int  read_exec_only:1;
    unsigned int  limit_in_pages:1;
    unsigned int  seg_not_present:1;
    unsigned int  useable:1;
};
.in

.BR get_thread_area ()
reads the GDT entry indicated by
.I u_info\->entry_number
and fills in the rest of the fields in
.IR u_info .

.BR set_thread_area ()
sets a TLS entry in the GDT.
.PP
The TLS array entry set by
.BR set_thread_area ()
corresponds to the value of
.I u_info\->entry_number
passed in by the user.
If this value is in bounds,
.BR set_thread_area ()
writes the TLS descriptor pointed to by
.I u_info
into the thread's TLS array.
.PP
When
.BR set_thread_area ()
is passed an
.I entry_number
of \-1, it searches for a free TLS entry.
If
.BR set_thread_area ()
finds a free TLS entry, the value of
.I u_info\->entry_number
is set upon return to show which entry was changed.
.PP
A
.I user_desc
is considered "empty" if
.I read_exec_only
and
.I seg_not_present
are set to 1 and all of the other fields are 0.
If an "empty" descriptor is passed to
.BR set_thread_area,
the corresponding TLS entry will be cleared.
See BUGS for additional details.
.PP
Since Linux 3.19,
.BR set_thread_area ()
cannot be used to write non-present segments, 16-bit segments, or code
segments, although clearing a segment is still acceptable.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These system calls
return 0 on success, and \-1 on failure, with
.I errno
set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
\fIu_info\fP is an invalid pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
\fIu_info\->entry_number\fP is out of bounds.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR get_thread_area (2)
or
.BR set_thread_area (2)
was invoked as a 64-bit system call.
.TP
.B ESRCH
.RB ( set_thread_area ())
A free TLS entry could not be located.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR set_thread_area ()
first appeared in Linux 2.5.29.
.BR get_thread_area ()
first appeared in Linux 2.5.32.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR set_thread_area ()
is Linux-specific and should not be used in programs that are intended
to be portable.
.SH NOTES
Glibc does not provide wrappers for these system calls,
since they are generally intended for use only by threading libraries.
In the unlikely event that you want to call them directly, use
.BR syscall (2).
.PP
.BR arch_prctl (2)
can interfere with
.BR set_thread_area (2).
See
.BR arch_prctl (2)
for more details.
This is not normally a problem, as
.BR arch_prctl (2)
is normally used only by 64-bit programs.
.SH BUGS
On 64-bit kernels before Linux 3.19,
.\" commit e30ab185c490e9a9381385529e0fd32f0a399495
one of the padding bits in
.IR user_desc ,
if set, would prevent the descriptor from being considered empty (see
.BR modify_ldt (2)).
As a result, the only reliable way to clear a TLS entry is to use
.BR memset (3)
to zero the entire
.I user_desc
structure, including padding bits, and then to set the
.I read_exec_only
and
.I seg_not_present
bits.
On Linux 3.19, a
.I user_desc
consisting entirely of zeros except for
.I entry_number
will also be interpreted as a request to clear a TLS entry, but this
behaved differently on older kernels.
.PP
Prior to Linux 3.19, the DS and ES segment registers must not reference
TLS entries.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR arch_prctl (2),
.BR modify_ldt (2)
