.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" [should really be seteuid.3]
.\" Modified, 27 May 2004, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added notes on capability requirements
.\"
.TH SETEUID 2 2015-07-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
seteuid, setegid \- set effective user or group ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int seteuid(uid_t " euid );
.br
.BI "int setegid(gid_t " egid );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR seteuid (),
.BR setegid ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR seteuid ()
sets the effective user ID of the calling process.
Unprivileged user processes may only set the effective user ID to the
real user ID, the effective user ID or the saved set-user-ID.

Precisely the same holds for
.BR setegid ()
with "group" instead of "user".
.\" When
.\" .I euid
.\" equals \-1, nothing is changed.
.\" (This is an artifact of the implementation in glibc of seteuid()
.\" using setresuid(2).)
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.

.IR Note :
there are cases where
.BR seteuid ()
can fail even when the caller is UID 0;
it is a grave security error to omit checking for a failure return from
.BR seteuid ().
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
The target user or group ID is not valid in this user namespace.
.TP
.B EPERM
The calling process is not privileged (Linux: does not have the
.B CAP_SETUID
capability in the case of
.BR seteuid (),
or the
.B CAP_SETGID
capability in the case of
.BR setegid ())
and
.I euid
(respectively,
.IR egid )
is not the real user (group) ID, the effective user (group) ID,
or the saved set-user-ID (saved set-group-ID).
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, 4.3BSD.
.SH NOTES
Setting the effective user (group) ID to the
saved set-user-ID (saved set-group-ID) is
possible since Linux 1.1.37 (1.1.38).
On an arbitrary system one should check
.BR _POSIX_SAVED_IDS .
.LP
Under glibc 2.0
.BI seteuid( euid )
is equivalent to
.BI setreuid(\-1, " euid" )
and hence may change the saved set-user-ID.
Under glibc 2.1 and later it is equivalent to
.BI setresuid(\-1, " euid" ", \-1)"
and hence does not change the saved set-user-ID.
Analogous remarks hold for
.BR setegid (),
with the difference that the change in implementation from
.BI setregid(\-1, " egid" )
to
.BI setresgid(\-1, " egid" ", \-1)"
occurred in glibc 2.2 or 2.3 (depending on the hardware architecture).

According to POSIX.1,
.BR seteuid ()
.RB ( setegid ())
need not permit
.I euid
.RI ( egid )
to be the same value as the current effective user (group) ID,
and some implementations do not permit this.
.SS C library/kernel differences
On Linux,
.BR seteuid ()
and
.BR setegid ()
are implemented as library functions that call, respectively,
.BR setreuid (2)
and
.BR setregid (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR geteuid (2),
.BR setresuid (2),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR capabilities (7),
.BR credentials (7),
.BR user_namespaces (7)
