.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" and Copyright (C) 2005, 2010, 2014, 2015, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified, 2003-05-26, Michael Kerrisk, <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.TH SETRESUID 2 2015-07-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
setresuid, setresgid \- set real, effective and saved user or group ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int setresuid(uid_t " ruid ", uid_t " euid ", uid_t " suid );
.br
.BI "int setresgid(gid_t " rgid ", gid_t " egid ", gid_t " sgid );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR setresuid ()
sets the real user ID, the effective user ID, and the
saved set-user-ID of the calling process.

Unprivileged user processes
may change the real UID,
effective UID, and saved set-user-ID, each to one of:
the current real UID, the current effective UID or the
current saved set-user-ID.

Privileged processes (on Linux, those having the \fBCAP_SETUID\fP capability)
may set the real UID, effective UID, and
saved set-user-ID to arbitrary values.

If one of the arguments equals \-1, the corresponding value is not changed.

Regardless of what changes are made to the real UID, effective UID,
and saved set-user-ID, the filesystem UID is always set to the same
value as the (possibly new) effective UID.

Completely analogously,
.BR setresgid ()
sets the real GID, effective GID, and saved set-group-ID
of the calling process (and always modifies the filesystem GID
to be the same as the effective GID),
with the same restrictions for unprivileged processes.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.

.IR Note :
there are cases where
.BR setresuid ()
can fail even when the caller is UID 0;
it is a grave security error to omit checking for a failure return from
.BR setresuid ().
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EAGAIN
The call would change the caller's real UID (i.e.,
.I ruid
does not match the caller's real UID),
but there was a temporary failure allocating the
necessary kernel data structures.
.TP
.B EAGAIN
.I ruid
does not match the caller's real UID and this call would
bring the number of processes belonging to the real user ID
.I ruid
over the caller's
.B RLIMIT_NPROC
resource limit.
Since Linux 3.1, this error case no longer occurs
(but robust applications should check for this error);
see the description of
.B EAGAIN
in
.BR execve (2).
.TP
.B EINVAL
One or more of the target user or group IDs
is not valid in this user namespace.
.TP
.B EPERM
The calling process is not privileged (did not have the \fBCAP_SETUID\fP
capability) and tried to change the IDs to values that are not permitted.
.SH VERSIONS
These calls are available under Linux since Linux 2.1.44.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These calls are nonstandard;
they also appear on HP-UX and some of the BSDs.
.SH NOTES
Under HP-UX and FreeBSD, the prototype is found in
.IR <unistd.h> .
Under Linux, the prototype is provided by glibc since version 2.3.2.

The original Linux
.BR setresuid ()
and
.BR setresgid ()
system calls supported only 16-bit user and group IDs.
Subsequently, Linux 2.4 added
.BR setresuid32 ()
and
.BR setresgid32 (),
supporting 32-bit IDs.
The glibc
.BR setresuid ()
and
.BR setresgid ()
wrapper functions transparently deal with the variations across kernel versions.
.\"
.SS C library/kernel differences
At the kernel level, user IDs and group IDs are a per-thread attribute.
However, POSIX requires that all threads in a process
share the same credentials.
The NPTL threading implementation handles the POSIX requirements by
providing wrapper functions for
the various system calls that change process UIDs and GIDs.
These wrapper functions (including those for
.BR setresuid ()
and
.BR setresgid ())
employ a signal-based technique to ensure
that when one thread changes credentials,
all of the other threads in the process also change their credentials.
For details, see
.BR nptl (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getresuid (2),
.BR getuid (2),
.BR setfsgid (2),
.BR setfsuid (2),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR capabilities (7),
.BR credentials (7),
.BR user_namespaces (7)
