.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     $Id: shutdown.2,v 1.1.1.1 1999/03/21 22:52:23 freitag Exp $
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:57:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:04:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998 by Andi Kleen
.\"
.TH SHUTDOWN 2 2015-12-28 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
shutdown \- shut down part of a full-duplex connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int shutdown(int " sockfd ", int " how );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR shutdown ()
call causes all or part of a full-duplex connection on the socket
associated with
.I sockfd
to be shut down.
If
.I how
is
.BR SHUT_RD ,
further receptions will be disallowed.
If
.I how
is
.BR SHUT_WR ,
further transmissions will be disallowed.
If
.I how
is
.BR SHUT_RDWR ,
further receptions and transmissions will be disallowed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I sockfd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B EINVAL
An invalid value was specified in
.IR how
(but see BUGS).
.TP
.B ENOTCONN
The specified socket is not connected.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
The file descriptor
.I sockfd
does not refer to a socket.
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, 4.4BSD
.RB ( shutdown ()
first appeared in 4.2BSD).
.SH NOTES
The constants
.BR SHUT_RD ,
.BR SHUT_WR ,
.B SHUT_RDWR
have the value 0, 1, 2,
respectively, and are defined in
.I <sys/socket.h>
since glibc-2.1.91.
.SH BUGS
Checks for the validity of
.I how
are done in domain-specific code,
and before Linux 3.7 not all domains performed these checks.
.\" https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=47111
Most notably, UNIX domain sockets simply ignored invalid values.
This problem was fixed for UNIX domain sockets
.\" commit fc61b928dc4d72176cf4bd4d30bf1d22e599aefc
.\" and for DECnet sockets in commit 46b66d7077b89fb4917ceef19b3f7dd86055c94a
in Linux 3.7.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR connect (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR socket (7)
