.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified 2003-08-17 by Walter Harms
.\" Modified 2004-06-23 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH STATFS 2 2015-02-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
statfs, fstatfs \- get filesystem statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#include <sys/vfs.h>    " "/* or <sys/statfs.h> */"
.sp
.BI "int statfs(const char *" path ", struct statfs *" buf );
.br
.BI "int fstatfs(int " fd ", struct statfs *" buf );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR statfs ()
system call returns information about a mounted filesystem.
.I path
is the pathname of any file within the mounted filesystem.
.I buf
is a pointer to a
.I statfs
structure defined approximately as follows:

.in +4n
.nf
struct statfs {
    __fsword_t f_type;    /* Type of filesystem (see below) */
    __fsword_t f_bsize;   /* Optimal transfer block size */
    fsblkcnt_t f_blocks;  /* Total data blocks in filesystem */
    fsblkcnt_t f_bfree;   /* Free blocks in filesystem */
    fsblkcnt_t f_bavail;  /* Free blocks available to
                             unprivileged user */
    fsfilcnt_t f_files;   /* Total file nodes in filesystem */
    fsfilcnt_t f_ffree;   /* Free file nodes in filesystem */
    fsid_t     f_fsid;    /* Filesystem ID */
    __fsword_t f_namelen; /* Maximum length of filenames */
    __fsword_t f_frsize;  /* Fragment size (since Linux 2.6) */
    __fsword_t f_flags;   /* Mount flags of filesystem
                             (since Linux 2.6.36) */
    __fsword_t f_spare[xxx];
                    /* Padding bytes reserved for future use */
};

Filesystem types:

   ADFS_SUPER_MAGIC      0xadf5
   AFFS_SUPER_MAGIC      0xADFF
   BDEVFS_MAGIC          0x62646576
   BEFS_SUPER_MAGIC      0x42465331
   BFS_MAGIC             0x1BADFACE
   BINFMTFS_MAGIC        0x42494e4d
   BTRFS_SUPER_MAGIC     0x9123683E
   CGROUP_SUPER_MAGIC    0x27e0eb
   CIFS_MAGIC_NUMBER     0xFF534D42
   CODA_SUPER_MAGIC      0x73757245
   COH_SUPER_MAGIC       0x012FF7B7
   CRAMFS_MAGIC          0x28cd3d45
   DEBUGFS_MAGIC         0x64626720
   DEVFS_SUPER_MAGIC     0x1373
   DEVPTS_SUPER_MAGIC    0x1cd1
   EFIVARFS_MAGIC        0xde5e81e4
   EFS_SUPER_MAGIC       0x00414A53
   EXT_SUPER_MAGIC       0x137D
   EXT2_OLD_SUPER_MAGIC  0xEF51
   EXT2_SUPER_MAGIC      0xEF53
   EXT3_SUPER_MAGIC      0xEF53
   EXT4_SUPER_MAGIC      0xEF53
   FUSE_SUPER_MAGIC      0x65735546
   FUTEXFS_SUPER_MAGIC   0xBAD1DEA
   HFS_SUPER_MAGIC       0x4244
   HOSTFS_SUPER_MAGIC    0x00c0ffee
   HPFS_SUPER_MAGIC      0xF995E849
   HUGETLBFS_MAGIC       0x958458f6
   ISOFS_SUPER_MAGIC     0x9660
   JFFS2_SUPER_MAGIC     0x72b6
   JFS_SUPER_MAGIC       0x3153464a
   MINIX_SUPER_MAGIC     0x137F /* orig. minix */
   MINIX_SUPER_MAGIC2    0x138F /* 30 char minix */
   MINIX2_SUPER_MAGIC    0x2468 /* minix V2 */
   MINIX2_SUPER_MAGIC2   0x2478 /* minix V2, 30 char names */
   MINIX3_SUPER_MAGIC    0x4d5a /* minix V3 fs, 60 char names */
   MQUEUE_MAGIC          0x19800202
   MSDOS_SUPER_MAGIC     0x4d44
   NCP_SUPER_MAGIC       0x564c
   NFS_SUPER_MAGIC       0x6969
   NILFS_SUPER_MAGIC     0x3434
   NTFS_SB_MAGIC         0x5346544e
   OCFS2_SUPER_MAGIC     0x7461636f
   OPENPROM_SUPER_MAGIC  0x9fa1
   PIPEFS_MAGIC          0x50495045
   PROC_SUPER_MAGIC      0x9fa0
   PSTOREFS_MAGIC        0x6165676C
   QNX4_SUPER_MAGIC      0x002f
   QNX6_SUPER_MAGIC      0x68191122
   RAMFS_MAGIC           0x858458f6
   REISERFS_SUPER_MAGIC  0x52654973
   ROMFS_MAGIC           0x7275
   SELINUX_MAGIC         0xf97cff8c
   SMACK_MAGIC           0x43415d53
   SMB_SUPER_MAGIC       0x517B
   SOCKFS_MAGIC          0x534F434B
   SQUASHFS_MAGIC        0x73717368
   SYSFS_MAGIC           0x62656572
   SYSV2_SUPER_MAGIC     0x012FF7B6
   SYSV4_SUPER_MAGIC     0x012FF7B5
   TMPFS_MAGIC           0x01021994
   UDF_SUPER_MAGIC       0x15013346
   UFS_MAGIC             0x00011954
   USBDEVICE_SUPER_MAGIC 0x9fa2
   V9FS_MAGIC            0x01021997
   VXFS_SUPER_MAGIC      0xa501FCF5
   XENFS_SUPER_MAGIC     0xabba1974
   XENIX_SUPER_MAGIC     0x012FF7B4
   XFS_SUPER_MAGIC       0x58465342
   _XIAFS_SUPER_MAGIC    0x012FD16D
.fi
.in
.PP
Most of these MAGIC constants are defined in
.IR /usr/include/linux/magic.h ,
and some are hardcoded in kernel sources.

The
.IR f_flags
is a bit mask indicating mount options for the file system.
It contains zero or more of the following bits:
.\" XXX Keep this list in sync with statvfs(3)
.TP
.B ST_MANDLOCK
Mandatory locking is permitted on the filesystem (see
.BR fcntl (2)).
.TP
.B ST_NOATIME
Do not update access times; see
.BR mount (2).
.TP
.B ST_NODEV
Disallow access to device special files on this filesystem.
.TP
.B ST_NODIRATIME
Do not update directory access times; see
.BR mount (2).
.TP
.B ST_NOEXEC
Execution of programs is disallowed on this filesystem.
.TP
.B ST_NOSUID
The set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits are ignored by
.BR exec (3)
for executable files on this filesystem
.TP
.B ST_RDONLY
This filesystem is mounted read-only.
.TP
.B ST_RELATIME
Update atime relative to mtime/ctime; see
.BR mount (2).
.TP
.B ST_SYNCHRONOUS
Writes are synched to the filesystem immediately (see the description of
.B O_SYNC
in
.BR open (2)).
.PP
Nobody knows what
.I f_fsid
is supposed to contain (but see below).
.PP
Fields that are undefined for a particular filesystem are set to 0.

.BR fstatfs ()
returns the same information about an open file referenced by descriptor
.IR fd .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
.RB ( statfs ())
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.IR path .
(See also
.BR path_resolution (7).)
.TP
.B EBADF
.RB ( fstatfs ())
.I fd
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I buf
or
.I path
points to an invalid address.
.TP
.B EINTR
This call was interrupted by a signal; see
.BR signal (7).
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from the filesystem.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.RB ( statfs ())
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.RB ( statfs ())
.I path
is too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
.RB ( statfs ())
The file referred to by
.I path
does not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
The filesystem does not support this call.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
.RB ( statfs ())
A component of the path prefix of
.I path
is not a directory.
.TP
.B EOVERFLOW
Some values were too large to be represented in the returned struct.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Linux-specific.
The Linux
.BR statfs ()
was inspired by the 4.4BSD one
(but they do not use the same structure).
.SH NOTES
The
.I __fsword_t
type used for various fields in the
.I statfs
structure definition is a glibc internal type,
not intended for public use.
This leaves the programmer in a bit of a conundrum when trying to copy
or compare these fields to local variables in a program.
Using
.I "unsigned\ int"
for such variables suffices on most systems.

The original Linux
.BR statfs ()
and
.BR fstatfs ()
system calls were not designed with extremely large file sizes in mind.
Subsequently, Linux 2.6
added new
.BR statfs64 ()
and
.BR fstatfs64 ()
system calls that employ a new structure,
.IR statfs64 .
The new structure contains the same fields as the original
.I statfs
structure, but the sizes of various fields are increased,
to accommodate large file sizes.
The glibc
.BR statfs ()
and
.BR fstatfs ()
wrapper functions transparently deal with the kernel differences.

Some systems have only \fI<sys/vfs.h>\fP, other systems also have
\fI<sys/statfs.h>\fP, where the former includes the latter.
So it seems
including the former is the best choice.

LSB has deprecated the library calls
.BR statfs ()
and
.BR fstatfs ()
and tells us to use
.BR statvfs (2)
and
.BR fstatvfs (2)
instead.
.SS The f_fsid field
Solaris, Irix and POSIX have a system call
.BR statvfs (2)
that returns a
.I "struct statvfs"
(defined in
.IR <sys/statvfs.h> )
containing an
.I "unsigned long"
.IR f_fsid .
Linux, SunOS, HP-UX, 4.4BSD have a system call
.BR statfs ()
that returns a
.I "struct statfs"
(defined in
.IR <sys/vfs.h> )
containing a
.I fsid_t
.IR f_fsid ,
where
.I fsid_t
is defined as
.IR "struct { int val[2]; }" .
The same holds for FreeBSD, except that it uses the include file
.IR <sys/mount.h> .

The general idea is that
.I f_fsid
contains some random stuff such that the pair
.RI ( f_fsid , ino )
uniquely determines a file.
Some operating systems use (a variation on) the device number,
or the device number combined with the filesystem type.
Several operating systems restrict giving out the
.I f_fsid
field to the superuser only (and zero it for unprivileged users),
because this field is used in the filehandle of the filesystem
when NFS-exported, and giving it out is a security concern.
.LP
Under some operating systems, the
.I fsid
can be used as the second argument to the
.BR sysfs (2)
system call.
.SH BUGS
From Linux 2.6.38 up to and including Linux 3.1,
.\" broken in commit ff0c7d15f9787b7e8c601533c015295cc68329f8
.\" fixed in commit d70ef97baf048412c395bb5d65791d8fe133a52b
.BR fstatfs ()
failed with the error
.B ENOSYS
for file descriptors created by
.BR pipe (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stat (2),
.BR statvfs (2),
.BR path_resolution (7)
