.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 2001-03-16 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 2004-05-27 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH STIME 2 2014-05-10 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
stime \- set time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "int stime(const time_t *" t );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR stime ():
_SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR stime ()
sets the system's idea of the time and date.
The time, pointed
to by \fIt\fP, is measured in seconds since the
Epoch, 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 (UTC).
.BR stime ()
may be executed only by the superuser.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
Error in getting information from user space.
.TP
.B EPERM
The calling process has insufficient privilege.
Under Linux, the
.B CAP_SYS_TIME
privilege is required.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR date (1),
.BR settimeofday (2),
.BR capabilities (7)
