.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Michael Kerrisk <tmk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" and Copyright 2003 Abhijit Menon-Sen <ams@wiw.org>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2004-05-31, added tgkill, ahu, aeb
.\" 2008-01-15 mtk -- rewrote DESCRIPTION
.\"
.TH TKILL 2 2014-12-31 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
tkill, tgkill \- send a signal to a thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BI "int tkill(int " tid ", int " sig );
.sp
.BI "int tgkill(int " tgid ", int " tid ", int " sig );
.fi

.IR Note :
There are no glibc wrappers for these system calls; see NOTES.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR tgkill ()
sends the signal
.I sig
to the thread with the thread ID
.I tid
in the thread group
.IR tgid .
(By contrast,
.BR kill (2)
can be used to send a signal only to a process (i.e., thread group)
as a whole, and the signal will be delivered to an arbitrary
thread within that process.)

.BR tkill ()
is an obsolete predecessor to
.BR tgkill ().
It allows only the target thread ID to be specified,
which may result in the wrong thread being signaled if a thread
terminates and its thread ID is recycled.
Avoid using this system call.
.\" FIXME Maybe say something about the following:
.\" http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=12889
.\"     Rich Felker <bugdal@aerifal.cx>
.\"     There is a race condition in pthread_kill: it is possible that,
.\"     between the time pthread_kill reads the pid/tid from the target
.\"     thread descriptor and the time it makes the tgkill syscall,
.\"     the target thread terminates and the same tid gets assigned
.\"     to a new thread in the same process.
.\"
.\"     (The tgkill syscall was designed to eliminate a similar race
.\"     condition in tkill, but it only succeeded in eliminating races
.\"     where the tid gets reused in a different process, and does not
.\"     help if the same tid gets assigned to a new thread in the
.\"     same process.)
.\"
.\"     The only solution I can see is to introduce a mutex that ensures
.\"     that a thread cannot exit while pthread_kill is being called on it.
.\"
.\"     Note that in most real-world situations, like almost all race
.\"     conditions, this one will be extremely rare. To make it
.\"     measurable, one could exhaust all but 1-2 available pid values,
.\"     possibly by lowering the max pid parameter in /proc, forcing
.\"     the same tid to be reused rapidly.

These are the raw system call interfaces, meant for internal
thread library use.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and \fIerrno\fP
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
An invalid thread ID, thread group ID, or signal was specified.
.TP
.B EPERM
Permission denied.
For the required permissions, see
.BR kill (2).
.TP
.B ESRCH
No process with the specified thread ID (and thread group ID) exists.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR tkill ()
is supported since Linux 2.4.19 / 2.5.4.
.BR tgkill ()
was added in Linux 2.5.75.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR tkill ()
and
.BR tgkill ()
are Linux-specific and should not be used
in programs that are intended to be portable.
.SH NOTES
See the description of
.B CLONE_THREAD
in
.BR clone (2)
for an explanation of thread groups.

Glibc does not provide wrappers for these system calls; call them using
.BR syscall (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR clone (2),
.BR gettid (2),
.BR kill (2),
.BR rt_sigqueueinfo (2)
