.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)truncate.2	6.9 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1996-10-22 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998-12-21 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 2002-01-07 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" Modified 2002-04-06 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 2004-06-23 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH TRUNCATE 2 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
truncate, ftruncate \- truncate a file to a specified length
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.BI "int truncate(const char *" path ", off_t " length );
.br
.BI "int ftruncate(int " fd ", off_t " length );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.ad l
.PD 0
.sp
.BR truncate ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.br
|| /* Since glibc 2.12: */ _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.RE
.sp
.BR ftruncate ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.br
|| /* Since glibc 2.3.5: */ _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L
.RE
.PD
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR truncate ()
and
.BR ftruncate ()
functions cause the regular file named by
.I path
or referenced by
.I fd
to be truncated to a size of precisely
.I length
bytes.
.LP
If the file previously was larger than this size, the extra data is lost.
If the file previously was shorter, it is extended, and
the extended part reads as null bytes (\(aq\\0\(aq).
.LP
The file offset is not changed.
.LP
If the size changed, then the st_ctime and st_mtime fields
(respectively, time of last status change and
time of last modification; see
.BR stat (2))
for the file are updated,
and the set-user-ID and set-group-ID mode bits may be cleared.
.LP
With
.BR ftruncate (),
the file must be open for writing; with
.BR truncate (),
the file must be writable.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
For
.BR truncate ():
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix,
or the named file is not writable by the user.
(See also
.BR path_resolution (7).)
.TP
.B EFAULT
The argument
.I path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP
.B EFBIG
The argument
.I length
is larger than the maximum file size. (XSI)
.TP
.B EINTR
While blocked waiting to complete,
the call was interrupted by a signal handler; see
.BR fcntl (2)
and
.BR signal (7).
.TP
.B EINVAL
The argument
.I length
is negative or larger than the maximum file size.
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred updating the inode.
.TP
.B EISDIR
The named file is a directory.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire pathname exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The named file does not exist.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EPERM
.\" This happens for at least MSDOS and VFAT filesystems
.\" on kernel 2.6.13
The underlying filesystem does not support extending
a file beyond its current size.
.TP
.B EPERM
The operation was prevented by a file seal; see
.BR fcntl (2).
.TP
.B EROFS
The named file resides on a read-only filesystem.
.TP
.B ETXTBSY
The file is an executable file that is being executed.
.PP
For
.BR ftruncate ()
the same errors apply, but instead of things that can be wrong with
.IR path ,
we now have things that can be wrong with the file descriptor,
.IR fd :
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.BR EBADF " or " EINVAL
.I fd
is not open for writing.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I fd
does not reference a regular file.
.TP
.BR EINVAL " or " EBADF
The file descriptor
.I fd
is not open for writing.
POSIX permits, and portable applications should handle,
either error for this case.
(Linux produces
.BR EINVAL .)
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008,
4.4BSD, SVr4 (these calls first appeared in 4.2BSD).
.\" POSIX.1-1996 has
.\" .BR ftruncate ().
.\" POSIX.1-2001 also has
.\" .BR truncate (),
.\" as an XSI extension.
.\" .LP
.\" SVr4 documents additional
.\" .BR truncate ()
.\" error conditions EMFILE, EMULTIHP, ENFILE, ENOLINK.  SVr4 documents for
.\" .BR ftruncate ()
.\" an additional EAGAIN error condition.
.SH NOTES
The details in DESCRIPTION are for XSI-compliant systems.
For non-XSI-compliant systems, the POSIX standard allows
two behaviors for
.BR ftruncate ()
when
.I length
exceeds the file length
(note that
.BR truncate ()
is not specified at all in such an environment):
either returning an error, or extending the file.
Like most UNIX implementations, Linux follows the XSI requirement
when dealing with native filesystems.
However, some nonnative filesystems do not permit
.BR truncate ()
and
.BR ftruncate ()
to be used to extend a file beyond its current length:
a notable example on Linux is VFAT.
.\" At the very least: OSF/1, Solaris 7, and FreeBSD conform, mtk, Jan 2002

The original Linux
.BR truncate ()
and
.BR ftruncate ()
system calls were not designed to handle large file offsets.
Consequently, Linux 2.4 added
.BR truncate64 ()
and
.BR ftruncate64 ()
system calls that handle large files.
However, these details can be ignored by applications using glibc, whose
wrapper functions transparently employ the more recent system calls
where they are available.

On some 32-bit architectures,
the calling signature for these system calls differ,
for the reasons described in
.BR syscall (2).
.SH BUGS
A header file bug in glibc 2.12 meant that the minimum value of
.\" http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=12037
.BR _POSIX_C_SOURCE
required to expose the declaration of
.BR ftruncate ()
was 200809L instead of 200112L.
This has been fixed in later glibc versions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR path_resolution (7)
