.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1996-10-22 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2004-06-23 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" Modified 2005-01-09 by aeb
.\"
.TH USELIB 2 2015-12-28 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
uselib \- load shared library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int uselib(const char *" library );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The system call
.BR uselib ()
serves to load
a shared library to be used by the calling process.
It is given a pathname.
The address where to load is found
in the library itself.
The library can have any recognized
binary format.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
In addition to all of the error codes returned by
.BR open (2)
and
.BR mmap (2),
the following may also be returned:
.TP
.B EACCES
The library specified by
.I library
does not have read or execute permission, or the caller does not have
search permission for one of the directories in the path prefix.
(See also
.BR path_resolution (7).)
.TP
.B ENFILE
The system-wide limit on the total number of open files has been reached.
.TP
.B ENOEXEC
The file specified by
.I library
is not an executable of a known type;
for example, it does not have the correct magic numbers.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR uselib ()
is Linux-specific, and should not be used in programs
intended to be portable.
.SH NOTES
.BR uselib ()
was used by early libc startup code to load
the shared libraries with names found in an array of names
in the binary.
.LP
.\" libc 4.3.1f - changelog 1993-03-02
Since libc 4.3.2, startup code tries to prefix these names
with "/usr/lib", "/lib" and "" before giving up.
.\" libc 4.3.4 - changelog 1993-04-21
In libc 4.3.4 and later these names are looked for in the directories
found in
.BR LD_LIBRARY_PATH ,
and if not found there,
prefixes "/usr/lib", "/lib" and "/" are tried.
.LP
From libc 4.4.4 on only the library "/lib/ld.so" is loaded,
so that this dynamic library can load the remaining libraries needed
(again using this call).
This is also the state of affairs in libc5.
.LP
glibc2 does not use this call.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ar (1),
.BR gcc (1),
.BR ld (1),
.BR ldd (1),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR dlopen (3),
.BR capabilities (7),
.BR ld.so (8)
