.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Copyright 1997 Andries E. Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH VM86 2 2009-02-20 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
vm86old, vm86 \- enter virtual 8086 mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/vm86.h>
.sp
.BI "int vm86old(struct vm86_struct *" info );
.sp
.BI "int vm86(unsigned long " fn ", struct vm86plus_struct *" v86 );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The system call
.BR vm86 ()
was introduced in Linux 0.97p2.
In Linux 2.1.15 and 2.0.28, it was renamed to
.BR vm86old (),
and a new
.BR vm86 ()
was introduced.
The definition of
.IR "struct vm86_struct"
was changed
in 1.1.8 and 1.1.9.
.LP
These calls cause the process to enter VM86 mode (virtual-8086 in Intel
literature), and are used by
.BR dosemu .
.PP
VM86 mode is an emulation of real mode within a protected mode task.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
This return value is specific to i386 and indicates a problem with getting
user-space data.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
This return value indicates the call is not implemented on the present
architecture.
.TP
.B EPERM
Saved kernel stack exists.
(This is a kernel sanity check; the saved
stack should exist only within vm86 mode itself.)
.SH CONFORMING TO
This call is specific to Linux on 32-bit Intel processors,
and should not be used in programs intended to be portable.
