.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Christoph J. Thompson <obituary@linuxbe.org>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_MISC)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FTPUSERS 5 2000-08-27 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ftpusers \- list of users that may not log in via the FTP daemon
.SH DESCRIPTION
The text file
.B ftpusers
contains a list of users that may not log in using the
File Transfer Protocol (FTP) server daemon.
This file is used not merely for
system administration purposes but for improving security within a TCP/IP
networked environment.
It will typically contain a list of the users that
either have no business using ftp or have too many privileges to be allowed
to log in through the FTP server daemon.
Such users usually include root, daemon, bin, uucp, and news.
If your FTP server daemon doesn't use
.BR ftpusers ,
then it is suggested that you read its documentation to find out how to
block access for certain users.
Washington University FTP server Daemon
(wuftpd) and Professional FTP Daemon (proftpd) are known to make use of
.BR ftpusers .
.SS Format
The format of
.B ftpusers
is very simple.
There is one account name (or username) per line.
Lines starting with a # are ignored.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/ftpusers
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR passwd (5),
.BR proftpd (8),
.BR wuftpd (8)
