.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de),
.\"     Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 11:06:27 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH SECURETTY 5 2015-03-29 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
securetty \- file which lists terminals from which root can log in
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I /etc/securetty
contains the names of terminals
(one per line, without leading
.IR /dev/ )
which are considered secure for the transmission of certain authentication
tokens.
.P
It is used by (some versions of)
.BR login (1)
to restrict the terminals
on which root is allowed to login.
See
.BR login.defs (5)
if you use the shadow suite.
.P
On PAM enabled systems, it is used for the same purpose by
.BR pam_securetty (8)
to restrict the terminals on which empty passwords are accepted.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/securetty
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR login.defs (5),
.BR pam_securetty (8)
