.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SLN 8 2013-02-10 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
sln \- create symbolic links
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI sln " source dest"
.br
.BI sln " filelist"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sln
program creates symbolic links.
Unlike the
.BR ln (1)
program, it is statically linked.
This means that if for some reason the dynamic linker is not working,
.BR sln
can be used to make symbolic links to dynamic libraries.

The command line has two forms.
In the first form, it creates
.I dest
as a new symbolic link to
.IR source .

In the second form,
.I filelist
is a list of space-separated pathname pairs,
and the effect is as if
.BR sln
was executed once for each line of the file,
with the two pathnames as the arguments.

The
.B sln
program supports no command-line options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ln (1),
.BR ldconfig (8),
.BR ld.so (8)
