.\" Copyright (c) 2015, IBM Corporation.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of
.\" this manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that
.\" the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of
.\" a permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume.
.\" no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting.
.\" from the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may.
.\" not have taken the same level of care in the production of this.
.\" manual, which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working.
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH __PPC_SET_PPR_MED 3 2015-12-05 "GNU C Library" "Linux\
Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
__ppc_set_ppr_med, __ppc_set_ppr_very_low, __ppc_set_ppr_low, __ppc_set_ppr_med_low, __ppc_set_ppr_med_high \-
Set the Program Priority Register
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/platform/ppc.h>
.sp
.B void __ppc_set_ppr_med(void);
.br
.B void __ppc_set_ppr_very_low(void);
.br
.B void __ppc_set_ppr_low(void);
.br
.B void __ppc_set_ppr_med_low(void);
.br
.B void __ppc_set_ppr_med_high(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions provide access to the
.I Program Priority Register
(PPR) on the Power architecture.
.P
The PPR is a 64-bit register that controls the program's priority.
By adjusting the PPR value the programmer may improve system
throughput by causing system resources to be used more
efficiently, especially in contention situations.
The available unprivileged states are covered by the following functions:
.IP * 3
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_med ()
sets the Program Priority Register value to
.IR medium
(default).
.IP *
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_very_low ()
sets the Program Priority Register value to
.IR "very low" .
.IP *
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_low ()
sets the Program Priority Register value to
.IR low .
.IP *
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_med_low ()
sets the Program Priority Register value to
.IR "medium low" .
.P
The privileged state
.IR "medium high"
may also be set during certain time intervals by problem-state (unprivileged)
programs, with the following function:
.IP * 3
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_med_high ()
sets the Program Priority to
.IR "medium high" .
.P
If the program priority is medium high when the time interval expires or if an
attempt is made to set the priority to medium high when it is not allowed, the
priority is set to medium.
.SH VERSIONS
The functions
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_med (),
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_low ()
and
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_med_low ()
are provided by glibc since version 2.18.
The functions
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_very_low ()
and
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_med_high ()
first appeared in glibc in version 2.23.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.ad l
.TS
allbox;
lbw26 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_med (),
.br
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_very_low (),
.br
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_low (),
.br
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_med_low (),
.br
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_med_high ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.ad
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions are nonstandard GNU extensions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR __ppc_yield (3)

.IR "Power ISA, Book\ II - Section\ 3.1 (Program Priority Registers)"
