.\" Copyright (c) 2015, IBM Corporation.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of
.\" this manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that
.\" the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of
.\" a permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume.
.\" no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting.
.\" from the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may.
.\" not have taken the same level of care in the production of this.
.\" manual, which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working.
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH __PPC_YIELD 3 2015-08-05 "GNU C Library" "Linux Programmer's\
Manual"
.SH NAME
__ppc_yield, __ppc_mdoio, __ppc_mdoom \-
Hint the processor to release shared resources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/platform/ppc.h>
.sp
.B void __ppc_yield(void);
.br
.B void __ppc_mdoio(void);
.br
.B void __ppc_mdoom(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions
provide hints about the usage of resources that are shared with other
processors on the Power architecture.
They can be used, for example, if a program waiting on a lock intends
to divert the shared resources to be used by other processors.
.P
.BR __ppc_yield ()
provides a hint that performance will probably be improved if shared
resources dedicated to the executing processor are released for use by
other processors.
.P
.BR __ppc_mdoio ()
provides a hint that performance will probably be improved if shared
resources dedicated to the executing processor are released until all
outstanding storage accesses to caching-inhibited storage have been
completed.
.P
.BR __ppc_mdoom ()
provides a hint that performance will probably be improved if shared
resources dedicated to the executing processor are released until all
outstanding storage accesses to cacheable storage for which the data
is not in the cache have been completed.
.SH VERSIONS
These functions first appeared in glibc in version 2.18.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.ad l
.TS
allbox;
lbw29 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR __ppc_yield (),
.BR __ppc_mdoio (),
.BR __ppc_mdoom ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.ad
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions are nonstandard GNU extensions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR __ppc_set_ppr_med (3)

.IR "Power ISA, Book\ II - Section\ 3.2 (""or"" architecture)"
