.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH AIO_ERROR 3 2015-03-02  "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
aio_error \- get error status of asynchronous I/O operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <aio.h>"
.sp
.BI "int aio_error(const struct aiocb *" aiocbp );
.sp
Link with \fI\-lrt\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR aio_error ()
function returns the error status for the asynchronous I/O request
with control block pointed to by
.IR aiocbp .
(See
.BR aio (7)
for a description of the
.I aiocb
structure.)
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns one of the following:
.IP * 3
.BR EINPROGRESS ,
if the request has not been
completed yet.
.IP *
.BR ECANCELED ,
if the request was canceled.
.IP *
0, if the request completed successfully.
.IP *
A positive error number, if the asynchronous I/O operation failed.
This is the same value that would have been stored in the
.I errno
variable in the case of a synchronous
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fsync (2),
or
.BR fdatasync (2)
call.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I aiocbp
does not point at a control block for an asynchronous I/O request
of which the return status (see
.BR aio_return (3))
has not been retrieved yet.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR aio_error ()
is not implemented.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR aio_error ()
function is available since glibc 2.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR aio_error ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR aio (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aio_cancel (3),
.BR aio_fsync (3),
.BR aio_read (3),
.BR aio_return (3),
.BR aio_suspend (3),
.BR aio_write (3),
.BR lio_listio (3),
.BR aio (7)
