.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH AIO_FSYNC 3 2015-03-02  "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
aio_fsync \- asynchronous file synchronization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <aio.h>"
.sp
.BI "int aio_fsync(int " op ", struct aiocb *" aiocbp );
.sp
Link with \fI\-lrt\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR aio_fsync ()
function does a sync on all outstanding asynchronous I/O operations
associated with
.IR aiocbp\->aio_fildes .
(See
.BR aio (7)
for a description of the
.I aiocb
structure.)
.LP
More precisely, if
.I op
is
.BR O_SYNC ,
then all currently queued I/O operations shall be
completed as if by a call of
.BR fsync (2),
and if
.I op
is
.BR O_DSYNC ,
this call is the asynchronous analog of
.BR fdatasync (2).

Note that this is a request only; it does not wait for I/O completion.
.LP
Apart from
.IR aio_fildes ,
the only field in the structure pointed to by
.I aiocbp
that is used by this call is the
.I aio_sigevent
field (a
.I sigevent
structure, described in
.BR sigevent (7)),
which indicates the desired type of asynchronous notification at completion.
All other fields are ignored.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success (the sync request was successfully queued)
this function returns 0.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EAGAIN
Out of resources.
.TP
.B EBADF
.I aio_fildes
is not a valid file descriptor open for writing.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Synchronized I/O is not supported for this file, or
.I op
is not
.B O_SYNC
or
.BR O_DSYNC .
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.BR aio_fsync ()
is not implemented.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR aio_fsync ()
function is available since glibc 2.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR aio_fsync ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aio_cancel (3),
.BR aio_error (3),
.BR aio_read (3),
.BR aio_return (3),
.BR aio_suspend (3),
.BR aio_write (3),
.BR lio_listio (3),
.BR aio (7),
.BR sigevent (7)
