.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Text fragments inspired by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>.
.\"
.TH ASPRINTF 3 2015-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
asprintf, vasprintf \- print to allocated string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int asprintf(char **" strp ", const char *" fmt ", ...);"
.sp
.BI "int vasprintf(char **" strp ", const char *" fmt ", va_list " ap );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions
.BR asprintf ()
and
.BR vasprintf ()
are analogs of
.BR sprintf (3)
and
.BR vsprintf (3),
except that they allocate a string large enough to hold the output
including the terminating null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq),
and return a pointer to it via the first argument.
This pointer should be passed to
.BR free (3)
to release the allocated storage when it is no longer needed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
When successful, these functions return the number of bytes printed,
just like
.BR sprintf (3).
If memory allocation wasn't possible, or some other error occurs,
these functions will return \-1, and the contents of
.I strp
are undefined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw23 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR asprintf (),
.BR vasprintf ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe locale
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions are GNU extensions, not in C or POSIX.
They are also available under *BSD.
The FreeBSD implementation sets
.I strp
to NULL on error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR free (3),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR printf (3)
