.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" This replaces an earlier man page written by Walter Harms
.\" <walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>.
.\"
.TH ASSERT_PERROR 3  2015-03-02 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
assert_perror \- test errnum and abort
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <assert.h>
.sp
.BI "void assert_perror(int " errnum );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
If the macro
.B NDEBUG
was defined at the moment
.I <assert.h>
was last included, the macro
.BR assert_perror ()
generates no code, and hence does nothing at all.
Otherwise, the macro
.BR assert_perror ()
prints an error message to standard error and terminates the program
by calling
.BR abort (3)
if
.I errnum
is nonzero.
The message contains the filename, function name and
line number of the macro call, and the output of
.IR strerror(errnum) .
.SH RETURN VALUE
No value is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR assert_perror ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
This is a GNU extension.
.SH BUGS
The purpose of the assert macros is to help programmers find bugs in
their programs, things that cannot happen unless there was a coding mistake.
However, with system or library calls the situation is rather different,
and error returns can happen, and will happen, and should be tested for.
Not by an assert, where the test goes away when
.B NDEBUG
is defined,
but by proper error handling code.
Never use this macro.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR abort (3),
.BR assert (3),
.BR exit (3),
.BR strerror (3)
