.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH BSD_SIGNAL 3 2015-03-02 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
bsd_signal \- signal handling with BSD semantics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _XOPEN_SOURCE" "       /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.B typedef void (*sighandler_t)(int);
.sp
.BI "sighandler_t bsd_signal(int " signum ", sighandler_t " handler );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR bsd_signal ()
function takes the same arguments, and performs the same task, as
.BR signal (2).

The difference between the two is that
.BR bsd_signal ()
is guaranteed to provide reliable signal semantics, that is:
a) the disposition of the signal is not reset to the default
when the handler is invoked;
b) delivery of further instances of the signal is blocked while
the signal handler is executing; and
c) if the handler interrupts a blocking system call,
then the system call is automatically restarted.
A portable application cannot rely on
.BR signal (2)
to provide these guarantees.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR bsd_signal ()
function returns the previous value of the signal handler, or
.B SIG_ERR
on error.
.SH ERRORS
As for
.BR signal (2).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR bsd_signal ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.2BSD, POSIX.1-2001.
POSIX.1-2008 removes the specification of
.BR bsd_signal (),
recommending the use of
.BR sigaction (2)
instead.
.SH NOTES
Use of
.BR bsd_signal ()
should be avoided; use
.BR sigaction (2)
instead.

On modern Linux systems,
.BR bsd_signal ()
and
.BR signal (2)
are equivalent.
But on older systems,
.BR signal (2)
provided unreliable signal semantics; see
.BR signal (2)
for details.

The use of
.I sighandler_t
is a GNU extension;
this type is defined only if the
.B _GNU_SOURCE
feature test macro is defined.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR sysv_signal (3),
.BR signal (7)
