.\" Copyright 2013 Michael Kerrisk (mtk.manpages@gmail.com).
.\" (Replaces an earlier page by Walter Harms and Michael Kerrisk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH CANONICALIZE_FILE_NAME 3 2015-03-02 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
canonicalize_file_name \- return the canonicalized absolute pathname
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *canonicalize_file_name(const char *" path ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR canonicalize_file_name ()
function returns a null-terminated string containing
the canonicalized absolute pathname corresponding to
.IR path .
In the returned string, symbolic links are resolved, as are
.I .
and
.I ..
pathname components.
Consecutive slash
.RI ( / )
characters are replaced by a single slash.

The returned string is dynamically allocated by
.BR canonicalize_file_name ()
and the caller should deallocate it with
.BR free (3)
when it is no longer required.

The call
.I canonicalize_file_name(path)
is equivalent to the call:

    realpath(path, NULL);
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR canonicalize_file_name ()
returns a null-terminated string.
On error (e.g., a pathname component is unreadable or does not exist),
.BR canonicalize_file_name ()
returns NULL and sets
.I errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR realpath (3).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw24 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR canonicalize_file_name ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function is a GNU extension.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR readlink (2),
.BR realpath (3)
