.\" Copyright 1993 Mitchum DSouza <m.dsouza@mrc-applied-psychology.cambridge.ac.uk>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Updated, aeb, 980809
.TH CATGETS 3 2015-08-08 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
catgets \- get message from a message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nl_types.h>

.BI "char *catgets(nl_catd " catalog ", int " set_number \
", int " message_number ,
.BI "              const char *" message );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR catgets ()
reads the message
.IR message_number ,
in set
.IR set_number ,
from the message catalog identified by
.IR catalog ,
where
.I catalog
is a catalog descriptor returned from an earlier call to
.BR catopen (3).
The fourth argument,
.IR message ,
points to a default message string which will be returned by
.BR catgets ()
if the identified message catalog is not currently available.
The
message-text is contained in an internal buffer area and should be copied by
the application if it is to be saved or modified.
The return string is
always terminated with a null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq).
.SH RETURN VALUE
.LP
On success,
.BR catgets ()
returns a pointer to an internal buffer area
containing the null-terminated message string.
On failure,
.BR catgets ()
returns the value
.IR message .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR catgets ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
The
.BR catgets ()
function is available only in libc.so.4.4.4c and above.
The Jan 1987 X/Open Portability Guide specifies a more subtle
error return:
.I message
is returned if the message catalog specified by
.I catalog
is not available, while an empty string is returned
when the message catalog is available but does not contain
the specified message.
These two possible error returns seem to be discarded in SUSv2
in favor of always returning
.IR message .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR catopen (3),
.BR setlocale (3)
