.\" Copyright 2001 John Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Additions, aeb, 2001-10-17.
.TH CLEARENV 3  2015-07-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
clearenv \- clear the environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.B "int clearenv(void);"
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR clearenv ():
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR clearenv ()
function clears the environment of all name-value
pairs and sets the value of the external variable
.I environ
to NULL.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR clearenv ()
function returns zero on success, and a nonzero
value on failure.
.\" Most versions of UNIX return -1 on error, or do not even have errors.
.\" Glibc info and the Watcom C library document "a nonzero value".
.SH VERSIONS
Available since glibc 2.0.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR clearenv ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Unsafe const:env
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
Various UNIX variants (DG/UX, HP-UX, QNX, ...).
POSIX.9 (bindings for FORTRAN77).
POSIX.1-1996 did not accept
.BR clearenv ()
and
.BR putenv (3),
but changed its mind and scheduled these functions for some
later issue of this standard (cf. B.4.6.1).
However, POSIX.1-2001
adds only
.BR putenv (3),
and rejected
.BR clearenv ().
.SH NOTES
Used in security-conscious applications.
If it is unavailable
the assignment
.nf

    environ = NULL;

.fi
will probably do.
.LP
The DG/UX and Tru64 man pages write: If
.I environ
has been modified by anything other than the
.BR putenv (3),
.BR getenv (3),
or
.BR clearenv ()
functions, then
.BR clearenv ()
will return an error and the process environment will remain unchanged.
.\" .LP
.\" HP-UX has a ENOMEM error return.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getenv (3),
.BR putenv (3),
.BR setenv (3),
.BR unsetenv (3),
.BR environ (7)
