.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:51:06 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH CTERMID 3  2015-08-08 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ctermid \- get controlling terminal name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.\" POSIX also requires this function to be declared in <unistd.h>,
.\" and glibc does so if suitable feature test macros are defined.
.sp
.BI "char *ctermid(char *" "s" );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR ctermid ():
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 1 || _XOPEN_SOURCE || _POSIX_SOURCE
.\" From <unistd.h>: _XOPEN_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ctermid ()
returns a string which is the pathname for the current
controlling terminal for this process.
If
.I s
is NULL,
a static buffer is used, otherwise
.I s
points to a buffer used to hold the terminal pathname.
The symbolic constant
.B L_ctermid
is the maximum number of characters in the returned pathname.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The pointer to the pathname.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR ctermid ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, Svr4.
.SH BUGS
The path returned may not uniquely identify the controlling
terminal; it may, for example, be
.IR /dev/tty .
.PP
It is not assured that the program can open the terminal.
.\" in glibc 2.3.x, x >= 4, the glibc headers threw an error
.\" if ctermid() was given an argument; fixed in 2.4.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ttyname (3)
