.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\"
.\" Modified 1993-03-29, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified 1993-07-24, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-08-10, 2003-11-01 Walter Harms, aeb
.\"
.TH DIV 3 2015-08-08 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
div, ldiv, lldiv, imaxdiv \- compute quotient and remainder of
an integer division
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "div_t div(int " numerator ", int " denominator );
.br
.BI "ldiv_t ldiv(long " numerator ", long " denominator );
.br
.BI "lldiv_t lldiv(long long " numerator ", long long " denominator );
.sp
.B #include <inttypes.h>
.sp
.BI "imaxdiv_t imaxdiv(intmax_t " numerator ", intmax_t " denominator );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.ad l
.sp
.BR lldiv ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR div ()
function computes the value
\fInumerator\fP/\fIdenominator\fP and
returns the quotient and remainder in a structure
named \fIdiv_t\fP that contains
two integer members (in unspecified order) named \fIquot\fP and \fIrem\fP.
The quotient is rounded toward zero.
The result satisfies \fIquot\fP*\fIdenominator\fP+\fIrem\fP = \fInumerator\fP.
.LP
The
.BR ldiv (),
.BR lldiv (),
and
.BR imaxdiv ()
functions do the same,
dividing numbers of the indicated type and
returning the result in a structure
of the indicated name, in all cases with fields \fIquot\fP and \fIrem\fP
of the same type as the function arguments.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The \fIdiv_t\fP (etc.) structure.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw33 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR div (),
.BR ldiv (),
.BR lldiv (),
.BR imaxdiv ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, C89, C99, SVr4, 4.3BSD.
The functions
.BR lldiv ()
and
.BR imaxdiv ()
were added in C99.
.SH EXAMPLE
After
.nf

        div_t q = div(\-5, 3);

.fi
the values \fIq.quot\fP and \fIq.rem\fP are \-1 and \-2, respectively.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR abs (3),
.BR remainder (3)
