.\"  Copyright 2001 Walter Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" aeb: some corrections
.TH DYSIZE 3 2015-03-02 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
dysize \- get number of days for a given year
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <time.h>"
.sp
.BI "int dysize(int " year );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR dysize ():
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function returns 365 for a normal year and 366 for a leap year.
The calculation for leap year is based on:
.sp
(year) %4 == 0 && ((year) %100 != 0 || (year) %400 == 0)
.sp
The formula is defined in the macro
.I __isleap(year)
also found in
.IR <time.h> .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR dysize ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function occurs in SunOS 4.x.
.SH NOTES
This is a compatibility function only.
Don't use it in new programs.
.\" The SCO version of this function had a year-2000 problem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR strftime (3)
