.\" Copyright (C) 2009, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" a few pieces remain from an earlier version
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Nanno Langstraat <nal@ii.nl>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH ENDIAN 3  2010-09-10 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
htobe16, htole16, be16toh, le16toh, htobe32, htole32, be32toh, le32toh,
htobe64, htole64, be64toh, le64toh \-
convert values between host and big-/little-endian byte order
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _BSD_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <endian.h>

.BI "uint16_t htobe16(uint16_t " host_16bits );
.BI "uint16_t htole16(uint16_t " host_16bits );
.BI "uint16_t be16toh(uint16_t " big_endian_16bits );
.BI "uint16_t le16toh(uint16_t " little_endian_16bits );

.BI "uint32_t htobe32(uint32_t " host_32bits );
.BI "uint32_t htole32(uint32_t " host_32bits );
.BI "uint32_t be32toh(uint32_t " big_endian_32bits );
.BI "uint32_t le32toh(uint32_t " little_endian_32bits );

.BI "uint64_t htobe64(uint64_t " host_64bits );
.BI "uint64_t htole64(uint64_t " host_64bits );
.BI "uint64_t be64toh(uint64_t " big_endian_64bits );
.BI "uint64_t le64toh(uint64_t " little_endian_64bits );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions convert the byte encoding of integer values from
the byte order that the current CPU (the "host") uses,
to and from little-endian and big-endian byte order.

The number,
.IR nn ,
in the name of each function indicates the size of
integer handled by the function, either 16, 32, or 64 bits.

The functions with names of the form "htobe\fInn\fP" convert
from host byte order to big-endian order.

The functions with names of the form "htole\fInn\fP" convert
from host byte order to little-endian order.

The functions with names of the form "be\fInn\fPtoh" convert
from big-endian order to host byte order.

The functions with names of the form "le\fInn\fPtoh" convert
from little-endian order to host byte order.
.SH VERSIONS
These functions were added to glibc in version 2.9.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions are nonstandard.
Similar functions are present on the BSDs,
where the required header file is
.I <sys/endian.h>
instead of
.IR <endian.h> .
Unfortunately,
NetBSD, FreeBSD, and glibc haven't followed the original
OpenBSD naming convention for these functions,
whereby the
.I nn
component always appears at the end of the function name
(thus, for example, in NetBSD, FreeBSD, and glibc,
the equivalent of OpenBSDs "betoh32" is "be32toh").
.SH NOTES
These functions are similar to the older
.BR byteorder (3)
family of functions.
For example,
.BR be32toh ()
is identical to
.BR ntohl ().

The advantage of the
.BR byteorder (3)
functions is that they are standard functions available
on all UNIX systems.
On the other hand, the fact that they were designed
for use in the context of TCP/IP means that
they lack the 64-bit and little-endian variants described in this page.
.SH EXAMPLE
The program below display the results of converting an integer
from host byte order to both little-endian and big-endian byte order.
Since host byte order is either little-endian or big-endian,
only one of these conversions will have an effect.
When we run this program on a little-endian system such as x86-32,
we see the following:
.in +4n
.nf

$ \fB./a.out\fP
x.u32 = 0x44332211
htole32(x.u32) = 0x44332211
htobe32(x.u32) = 0x11223344
.fi
.in
.SS Program source
\&
.nf
#include <endian.h>
#include <stdint.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    union {
        uint32_t u32;
        uint8_t arr[4];
    } x;

    x.arr[0] = 0x11;	/* Lowest-address byte */
    x.arr[1] = 0x22;
    x.arr[2] = 0x33;
    x.arr[3] = 0x44;	/* Highest-address byte */

    printf("x.u32 = 0x%x\\n", x.u32);
    printf("htole32(x.u32) = 0x%x\\n", htole32(x.u32));
    printf("htobe32(x.u32) = 0x%x\\n", htobe32(x.u32));

    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR byteorder (3)
