.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FPURGE 3  2015-07-23 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
fpurge, __fpurge \- purge a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
/* unsupported */
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fpurge(FILE *" stream );
.sp
/* supported */
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
.B #include <stdio_ext.h>
.sp
.BI "void  __fpurge(FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR fpurge ()
clears the buffers of the given stream.
For output streams this discards any unwritten output.
For input streams this discards any input read from the underlying object
but not yet obtained via
.BR getc (3);
this includes any text pushed back via
.BR ungetc (3).
See also
.BR fflush (3).
.LP
The function
.BR __fpurge ()
does precisely the same, but without returning a value.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion
.BR fpurge ()
returns 0.
On error, it returns \-1 and sets
.I errno
appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I stream
is not an open stream.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR __fpurge ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe race:stream
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions are nonstandard and not portable.
The function
.BR fpurge ()
was introduced in 4.4BSD and is not available under Linux.
The function
.BR __fpurge ()
was introduced in Solaris, and is present in glibc 2.1.95 and later.
.SH NOTES
Usually it is a mistake to want to discard input buffers.
.SH SEE ALSO
.\" .BR fclean (3),
.BR fflush (3),
.BR setbuf (3),
.BR stdio_ext (3)
