.\" Copyright (c) 2006, 2008, Michael Kerrisk
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH FUTIMES 3 2015-03-02 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
futimes, lutimes \- change file timestamps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/time.h>

.BI "int futimes(int " fd ", const struct timeval " tv [2]);

.BI "int lutimes(const char *" filename ", const struct timeval " tv [2]);
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR futimes (),
.BR lutimes ():
_BSD_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR futimes ()
changes the access and modification times of a file in the same way as
.BR utimes (2),
with the difference that the file whose timestamps are to be changed
is specified via a file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
rather than via a pathname.

.BR lutimes ()
changes the access and modification times of a file in the same way as
.BR utimes (2),
with the difference that if
.I filename
refers to a symbolic link, then the link is not dereferenced:
instead, the timestamps of the symbolic link are changed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Errors are as for
.BR utimes (2),
with the following additions for
.BR futimes ():
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
The
.I /proc
filesystem could not be accessed.
.PP
The following additional error may occur for
.BR lutimes ():
.TP
.B ENOSYS
The kernel does not support this call; Linux 2.6.22 or later is required.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR futimes ()
is available since glibc 2.3.
.BR lutimes ()
is available since glibc 2.6, and is implemented using the
.BR utimensat (2)
system call, which is supported since kernel 2.6.22.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw20 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR futimes (),
.BR lutimes ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions are not specified in any standard.
Other than Linux, they are available only on the BSDs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR utime (2),
.BR utimensat (2),
.BR symlink (7)
