.\" Copyright (c) 2012, Petr Benas
.\" and Copyright (c) 2012, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.man-pages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of
.\" this manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that
.\" the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of
.\" a permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume
.\" no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting
.\" from the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may
.\" not have taken the same level of care in the production of this
.\" manual, which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH GET_NPROCS 3   2015-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
get_nprocs, get_nprocs_conf \- get number of processors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/sysinfo.h>
.sp
.BI "int get_nprocs(void);"
.br
.BI "int get_nprocs_conf(void);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR get_nprocs_conf ()
returns the number of processors configured by the operating system.

The function
.BR get_nprocs ()
returns the number of processors currently available in the system.
This may be less than the number returned by
.BR get_nprocs_conf ()
because processors may be offline (e.g., on hotpluggable systems).
.SH RETURN VALUE
As given in DESCRIPTION.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR get_nprocs (),
.br
.BR get_nprocs_conf ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions are GNU extensions.
.SH NOTES
The current
.\" glibc 2.15
implementation of these functions is rather expensive,
since they open and parse files in the
.I /sys
filesystem each time they are called.

The following
.BR sysconf (3)
calls make use of the functions documented on this page
to return the same information.
.nf

    np = sysconf(_SC_NPROCESSORS_CONF);     /* processors configured */
    np = sysconf(_SC_NPROCESSORS_ONLN);     /* processors available */
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows how
.BR get_nprocs ()
and
.BR get_nprocs_conf ()
can be used.

.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <sys/sysinfo.h>

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    printf("This system has %d processors configured and "
            "%d processors available.\\n",
            get_nprocs_conf(), get_nprocs());
    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi

