.\" Copyright 2012 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" See also https://lwn.net/Articles/519085/
.\"
.TH GETAUXVAL 3  2015-12-05 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getauxval \- retrieve a value from the auxiliary vector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/auxv.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned long getauxval(unsigned long " type );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getauxval ()
function retrieves values from the auxiliary vector,
a mechanism that the kernel's ELF binary loader
uses to pass certain information to
user space when a program is executed.

Each entry in the auxiliary vector consists of a pair of values:
a type that identifies what this entry represents,
and a value for that type.
Given the argument
.IR type ,
.BR getauxval ()
returns the corresponding value.

The value returned for each
.I type
is given in the following list.
Not all
.I type
values are present on all architectures.
.TP
.BR AT_BASE
The base address of the program interpreter (usually, the dynamic linker).
.TP
.BR AT_BASE_PLATFORM
A string identifying the real platform; may differ from
.BR AT_PLATFORM
(PowerPC only).
.TP
.BR AT_CLKTCK
The frequency with which
.BR times (2)
counts.
This value can also be obtained via
.IR sysconf(_SC_CLK_TCK) .
.TP
.BR AT_DCACHEBSIZE
The data cache block size.
.TP
.BR AT_EGID
The effective group ID of the thread.
.TP
.BR AT_ENTRY
The entry address of the executable.
.TP
.BR AT_EUID
The effective user ID of the thread.
.TP
.BR AT_EXECFD
File descriptor of program.
.TP
.BR AT_EXECFN
Pathname used to execute program.
.TP
.BR AT_FLAGS
Flags (unused).
.TP
.BR AT_FPUCW
Used FPU control word (SuperH architecture only).
This gives some information about the FPU initialization
performed by the kernel.
.TP
.BR AT_GID
The real group ID of the thread.
.TP
.BR AT_HWCAP
A pointer to a multibyte mask of bits whose settings
indicate detailed processor capabilities.
The contents of the bit mask are hardware dependent
(for example, see the kernel source file
.IR arch/x86/include/asm/cpufeature.h
for details relating to the Intel x86 architecture).
A human-readable version of the same information is available via
.IR /proc/cpuinfo .
.TP
.BR AT_HWCAP2 " (since glibc 2.18)"
Further machine-dependent hints about processor capabilities.
.TP
.BR AT_ICACHEBSIZE
The instruction cache block size.
.\" .TP
.\" .BR AT_IGNORE
.\" .TP
.\" .BR AT_IGNOREPPC
.\" .TP
.\" .BR AT_NOTELF
.TP
.BR AT_PAGESZ
The system page size (the same value returned by
.IR sysconf(_SC_PAGESIZE) ).
.TP
.BR AT_PHDR
The address of the program headers of the executable.
.TP
.BR AT_PHENT
The size of program header entry.
.TP
.BR AT_PHNUM
The number of program headers.
.TP
.BR AT_PLATFORM
A pointer to a string that identifies the hardware platform
that the program is running on.
The dynamic linker uses this in the interpretation of
.IR rpath
values.
.TP
.BR AT_RANDOM
The address of sixteen bytes containing a random value.
.TP
.BR AT_SECURE
Has a nonzero value if this executable should be treated securely.
Most commonly, a nonzero value indicates that the process is
executing a set-user-ID or set-group-ID binary
(so that it's real and effective UIDs or GIDs differ from one another),
or that it gained capabilities by executing
a binary file that has capabilities (see
.BR capabilities (7)).
Alternatively,
a nonzero value may be triggered by a Linux Security Module.
When this value is nonzero,
the dynamic linker disables the use of certain environment variables (see
.BR ld-linux.so (8))
and glibc changes other aspects of its behavior.
(See also
.BR secure_getenv (3).)
.TP
.BR AT_SYSINFO
The entry point to the system call function in the vDSO.
Not present/needed on all architectures (e.g., absent on x86-64).
.TP
.BR AT_SYSINFO_EHDR
The address of a page containing the virtual Dynamic Shared Object (vDSO)
that the kernel creates in order to provide fast implementations of
certain system calls.
.TP
.BR AT_UCACHEBSIZE
The unified cache block size.
.TP
.BR AT_UID
The real user ID of the thread.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR getauxval ()
returns the value corresponding to
.IR type .
If
.I type
is not found, 0 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.BR ENOENT " (since glibc 2.19)"
.\" commit b9ab448f980e296eac21ac65f53783967cc6037b
No entry corresponding to
.IR type
could be found in the auxiliary vector.
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR getauxval ()
function was added to glibc in version 2.16.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR getauxval ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function is a nonstandard glibc extension.
.SH NOTES
The primary consumer of the information in the auxiliary vector
is the dynamic linker
.BR ld-linux.so (8).
The auxiliary vector is a convenient and efficient shortcut
that allows the kernel to communicate a certain set of standard
information that the dynamic linker usually or always needs.
In some cases, the same information could be obtained by system calls,
but using the auxiliary vector is cheaper.

The auxiliary vector resides just above the argument list and
environment in the process address space.
The auxiliary vector supplied to a program can be viewed by setting the
.B LD_SHOW_AUXV
environment variable when running a program:

    $ LD_SHOW_AUXV=1 sleep 1

The auxiliary vector of any process can (subject to file permissions)
be obtained via
.IR /proc/PID/auxv ;
see
.BR proc (5)
for more information.
.SH BUGS
Before the addition of the
.B ENOENT
error in glibc 2.19,
there was no way to unambiguously distinguish the case where
.I type
could not be found from the case where the value corresponding to
.I type
was zer0.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR secure_getenv (3),
.BR vdso (7),
.BR ld-linux.so (8)
