.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_3_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)getloadavg.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" 2007-12-08, mtk, Converted from mdoc to man macros
.\"
.TH GETLOADAVG 3 2015-03-02 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getloadavg \- get system load averages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _BSD_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int getloadavg(double " loadavg[] ", int " nelem );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getloadavg ()
function returns the number of processes in the system run queue
averaged over various periods of time.
Up to
.I nelem
samples are retrieved and assigned to successive elements of
.IR loadavg [].
The system imposes a maximum of 3 samples, representing averages
over the last 1, 5, and 15 minutes, respectively.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If the load average was unobtainable, \-1 is returned; otherwise,
the number of samples actually retrieved is returned.
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" The
.\" BR getloadavg ()
.\" function appeared in
.\" 4.3BSD Reno .
.SH VERSIONS
This function is available in glibc since version 2.2.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR getloadavg ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
Not in POSIX.1.
Present on the BSDs and Solaris.
.\" mdoc seems to have a bug - there must be no newline here
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uptime (1),
.BR proc (5)
