.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:23:25 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon May 27 21:37:47 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH GETPW 3 2015-07-23 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getpw \- reconstruct password line entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <pwd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getpw(uid_t " uid ", char *" buf );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getpw ()
function reconstructs the password line entry for
the given user ID \fIuid\fP in the buffer \fIbuf\fP.
The returned buffer contains a line of format
.sp
.RS
.B name:passwd:uid:gid:gecos:dir:shell
.RE
.PP
The \fIpasswd\fP structure is defined in \fI<pwd.h>\fP as follows:
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
struct passwd {
    char   *pw_name;       /* username */
    char   *pw_passwd;     /* user password */
    uid_t   pw_uid;        /* user ID */
    gid_t   pw_gid;        /* group ID */
    char   *pw_gecos;      /* user information */
    char   *pw_dir;        /* home directory */
    char   *pw_shell;      /* shell program */
};
.fi
.in
.PP
For more information about the fields of this structure, see
.BR passwd (5).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR getpw ()
function returns 0 on success; on error, it returns \-1, and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.

If
.I uid
is not found in the password database,
.BR getpw ()
returns \-1, sets
.I errno
to 0, and leaves
.I buf
unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.BR 0 " or " ENOENT
No user corresponding to
.IR uid .
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I buf
is NULL.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory to allocate
.I passwd
structure.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/passwd
password database file
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR getpw ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe locale
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr2.
.SH BUGS
The
.BR getpw ()
function is dangerous as it may overflow the provided buffer
.IR buf .
It is obsoleted by
.BR getpwuid (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR endpwent (3),
.BR fgetpwent (3),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR getpwuid (3),
.BR putpwent (3),
.BR setpwent (3),
.BR passwd (5)
