.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 28 11:12:07 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Sep  8 15:48:13 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 2013-12-31, David Malcolm <dmalcolm@redhat.com>
.\"     Split gets(3) into its own page; fgetc() et al. move to fgetc(3)
.TH GETS 3  2015-03-02 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
gets \- get a string from standard input (DEPRECATED)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "char *gets(char *" "s" );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR "Never use this function" .

.BR gets ()
reads a line from
.I stdin
into the buffer pointed to by
.I s
until either a terminating newline or
.BR EOF ,
which it replaces with a null byte (\(aq\e0\(aq).
No check for buffer overrun is performed (see BUGS below).
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR gets ()
returns
.I s
on success, and NULL
on error or when end of file occurs while no characters have been read.
However, given the lack of buffer overrun checking, there can be no
guarantees that the function will even return.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR gets ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001.

LSB deprecates
.BR gets ().
POSIX.1-2008 marks
.BR gets ()
obsolescent.
ISO C11 removes the specification of
.BR gets ()
from the C language, and since version 2.16,
glibc header files don't expose the function declaration if the
.B _ISOC11_SOURCE
feature test macro is defined.
.SH BUGS
Never use
.BR gets ().
Because it is impossible to tell without knowing the data in advance how many
characters
.BR gets ()
will read, and because
.BR gets ()
will continue to store characters past the end of the buffer,
it is extremely dangerous to use.
It has been used to break computer security.
Use
.BR fgets ()
instead.

For more information, see CWE-242 (aka "Use of Inherently Dangerous
Function") at
http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/242.html
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR ferror (3),
.BR fgetc (3),
.BR fgets (3),
.BR fgetwc (3),
.BR fgetws (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR fread (3),
.BR fseek (3),
.BR getline (3),
.BR getwchar (3),
.BR puts (3),
.BR scanf (3),
.BR ungetwc (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3),
.BR feature_test_macros (7)
