.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" This replaces an earlier man page written by Walter Harms
.\" <walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>.
.\"
.TH GETUMASK 3 2010-09-10 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getumask \- get file creation mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B "#include <sys/types.h>"
.br
.B "#include <sys/stat.h>"
.sp
.B "mode_t getumask(void);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns the current file creation mask.
It is equivalent to
.in +4n
.nf

mode_t getumask(void)
{
    mode_t mask = umask( 0 );
    umask(mask);
    return mask;
}

.fi
.in
except that it is documented to be thread-safe (that is, shares
a lock with the
.BR umask (2)
library call).
.SH CONFORMING TO
This is a vaporware GNU extension.
.SH NOTES
This function is documented but not implemented yet in glibc,
as at version 2.9.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR umask (2)
