.\" Copyright 2004 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH INFINITY 3  2007-07-26 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
INFINITY, NAN, HUGE_VAL, HUGE_VALF, HUGE_VALL \- floating-point constants
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _ISOC99_SOURCE" "      /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.B INFINITY
.sp
.B NAN
.sp
.B HUGE_VAL
.br
.B HUGE_VALF
.br
.B HUGE_VALL
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The macro
.B INFINITY
expands to a
.I float
constant representing positive infinity.

The macro
.B NAN
expands to a
.I float
constant representing a quiet NaN
(when supported).
A
.I quiet
NaN is a NaN ("not-a-number") that does not raise exceptions
when it is used in arithmetic.
The opposite is a
.I signaling
NaN.
See IEC 60559:1989.

The macros
.BR HUGE_VAL ,
.BR HUGE_VALF ,
.B HUGE_VALL
expand to constants of types
.IR double ,
.I float
and
.IR "long double" ,
respectively,
that represent a large positive value, possibly positive infinity.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99.
.SH AVAILABILITY
On a glibc system, the macro
.B HUGE_VAL
is always available.
Availability of the
.B NAN
macro can be tested using
.BR "#ifdef NAN" ,
and similarly for
.BR INFINITY ,
.BR HUGE_VALF ,
.BR HUGE_VALL .
They will be defined by
.I <math.h>
if
.B _ISOC99_SOURCE
or
.B _GNU_SOURCE
is defined, or
.B __STDC_VERSION__
is defined
and has a value not less than 199901L.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fpclassify (3),
.BR math_error (7)
