.\" Copyright (c) Bruno Haible <haible@clisp.cons.org>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code and manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroup's Single UNIX specification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"   ISO/IEC 9899:1999
.\"
.TH ISWCTYPE 3  2015-08-08 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
iswctype \- wide-character classification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int iswctype(wint_t " wc ", wctype_t " desc );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.I wc
is a wide character having the character property designated by
.I desc
(or in other words: belongs to the character class designated by
.IR desc ),
the
.BR iswctype ()
function returns nonzero.
Otherwise, it
returns zero.
If
.I wc
is
.BR WEOF ,
zero is returned.
.PP
.I desc
must be a character property descriptor
returned by the
.BR wctype (3)
function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR iswctype ()
function returns nonzero if
the
.I wc
has the designated
property.
Otherwise, it returns 0.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR iswctype ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, C99.
.SH NOTES
The behavior of
.BR iswctype ()
depends on the
.B LC_CTYPE
category of the
current locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iswalnum (3),
.BR iswalpha (3),
.BR iswblank (3),
.BR iswcntrl (3),
.BR iswdigit (3),
.BR iswgraph (3),
.BR iswlower (3),
.BR iswprint (3),
.BR iswpunct (3),
.BR iswspace (3),
.BR iswupper (3),
.BR iswxdigit (3),
.BR wctype (3)
