.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:08:17 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-08-25, aeb
.\" Modified 2004-11-12 as per suggestion by Fabian Kreutz/AEB
.\" 2008-07-24, mtk, moved yxx() material into separate y0.3 page
.\"
.TH J0 3  2015-04-19 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
j0, j0f, j0l, j1, j1f, j1l, jn, jnf, jnl \-
Bessel functions of the first kind
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.fi
.BI "double j0(double " x );
.br
.BI "double j1(double " x );
.br
.BI "double jn(int " n ", double " x );
.sp
.BI "float j0f(float " x );
.br
.BI "float j1f(float " x );
.br
.BI "float jnf(int " n ", float " x );
.sp
.BI "long double j0l(long double " x );
.br
.BI "long double j1l(long double " x );
.br
.BI "long double jnl(int " n ", long double " x );
.sp
Link with \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR j0 (),
.BR j1 (),
.BR jn ():
.RS 4
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE
.RE
.br
.BR j0f (),
.BR j0l (),
.BR j1f (),
.BR j1l (),
.BR jnf (),
.BR jnl ():
.RS 4
_SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600
.\" Also seems to work: -std=c99 -D_XOPEN_SOURCE
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR j0 ()
and
.BR j1 ()
functions return Bessel functions of
.I x
of the first kind of orders 0 and 1, respectively.
The
.BR jn ()
function
returns the Bessel function of
.I x
of the first kind of order
.IR n .
.PP
The
.BR j0f (),
.BR j1f (),
and
.BR jnf (),
functions are versions that take and return
.I float
values.
The
.BR j0l (),
.BR j1l (),
and
.BR jnl ()
functions are versions that take and return
.I "long double"
values.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return the appropriate
Bessel value of the first kind for
.IR x .

If
.I x
is a NaN, a NaN is returned.

If
.I x
is too large in magnitude,
or the result underflows,
a range error occurs,
and the return value is 0.
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR math_error (7)
for information on how to determine whether an error has occurred
when calling these functions.
.PP
The following errors can occur:
.TP
Range error: result underflow, or \fIx\fP is too large in magnitude
.I errno
is set to
.BR ERANGE .
.\" An underflow floating-point exception
.\" .RB ( FE_UNDERFLOW )
.\" is raised.
.PP
These functions do not raise exceptions for
.BR fetestexcept (3).
.\" FIXME . Is it intentional that these functions do not raise exceptions?
.\" e.g., j0(1.5e16)
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6805
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR j0 (),
.BR j0f (),
.BR j0l ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR j1 (),
.BR j1f (),
.BR j1l ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR jn (),
.BR jnf (),
.BR jnl ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
The functions returning
.I double
conform to SVr4, 4.3BSD,
POSIX.1-2001, and POSIX.1-2008.
The others are nonstandard functions that also exist on the BSDs.
.SH BUGS
There are errors of up to 2e\-16 in the values returned by
.BR j0 (),
.BR j1 ()
and
.BR jn ()
for values of
.I x
between \-8 and 8.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR y0 (3)
