.\" Copyright 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\" and Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH LRINT 3  2015-04-19 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
lrint, lrintf, lrintl, llrint, llrintf, llrintl \- round to nearest integer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "long int lrint(double " x );
.br
.BI "long int lrintf(float " x );
.br
.BI "long int lrintl(long double " x );
.sp
.BI "long long int llrint(double " x );
.br
.BI "long long int llrintf(float " x );
.br
.BI "long long int llrintl(long double " x );
.fi
.sp
Link with \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
All functions shown above:
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions round their argument to the nearest integer value,
using the current rounding direction (see
.BR fesetround (3)).

Note that unlike the
.BR rint (3)
family of functions,
the return type of these functions differs from
that of their arguments.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return the rounded integer value.

If
.I x
is a NaN or an infinity,
or the rounded value is too large to be stored in a
.I long
.RI ( "long long"
in the case of the
.B ll*
functions),
then a domain error occurs, and the return value is unspecified.
.\" The return value is -(LONG_MAX - 1) or -(LLONG_MAX -1)
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR math_error (7)
for information on how to determine whether an error has occurred
when calling these functions.
.PP
The following errors can occur:
.TP
Domain error: \fIx\fP is a NaN or infinite, or the rounded value is too large
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR EDOM .
An invalid floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_INVALID )
is raised.
.PP
These functions do not set
.IR errno .
.\" FIXME . Is it intentional that these functions do not set errno?
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6798
.SH VERSIONS
These functions first appeared in glibc in version 2.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw30 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR lrint (),
.BR lrintf (),
.BR lrintl (),
.br
.BR llrint (),
.BR llrintf (),
.BR llrintl ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceil (3),
.BR floor (3),
.BR lround (3),
.BR nearbyint (3),
.BR rint (3),
.BR round (3)
