.\" Copyright (c) 2012 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MALLOC_INFO 3  2015-07-23 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
malloc_info \- export malloc state to a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <malloc.h>
.sp
.BI "int malloc_info(int " options ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR malloc_info ()
function exports an XML string that describes the current state
of the memory-allocation
implementation in the caller.
The string is printed on the file stream
.IR stream .
The exported string includes information about all arenas (see
.BR malloc (3)).

As currently implemented,
.I options
must be zero.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR malloc_info ()
returns 0;
on error, it returns \-1, with
.I errno
set to indicate the cause.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I options
was nonzero.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR malloc_info ()
was added to glibc in version 2.10.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR malloc_info ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
This function is a GNU extension.
.SH NOTES
The memory-allocation information is provided as an XML string
(rather than a C structure)
because the information may change over time
(according to changes in the underlying implementation).
The output XML string includes a version field.

The
.BR open_memstream (3)
function can be used to send the output of
.BR malloc_info ()
directly into a buffer in memory, rather than to a file.

The
.BR malloc_info ()
function is designed to address deficiencies in
.BR malloc_stats (3)
and
.BR mallinfo (3).
.SH EXAMPLE
The program below takes up to four command-line arguments,
of which the first three are mandatory.
The first argument specifies the number of threads that
the program should create.
All of the threads, including the main thread,
allocate the number of blocks of memory specified by the second argument.
The third argument controls the size of the blocks to be allocated.
The main thread creates blocks of this size,
the second thread created by the program allocates blocks of twice this size,
the third thread allocates blocks of three times this size, and so on.

The program calls
.BR malloc_info ()
twice to display the memory-allocation state.
The first call takes place before any threads
are created or memory allocated.
The second call is performed after all threads have allocated memory.

In the following example,
the command-line arguments specify the creation of one additional thread,
and both the main thread and the additional thread
allocate 10000 blocks of memory.
After the blocks of memory have been allocated,
.BR malloc_info ()
shows the state of two allocation arenas.
.in +4
.nf

.RB "$ " "getconf GNU_LIBC_VERSION"
glibc 2.13
.RB "$ " "./a.out 1 10000 100"
============ Before allocating blocks ============
<malloc version="1">
<heap nr="0">
<sizes>
</sizes>
<total type="fast" count="0" size="0"/>
<total type="rest" count="0" size="0"/>
<system type="current" size="135168"/>
<system type="max" size="135168"/>
<aspace type="total" size="135168"/>
<aspace type="mprotect" size="135168"/>
</heap>
<total type="fast" count="0" size="0"/>
<total type="rest" count="0" size="0"/>
<system type="current" size="135168"/>
<system type="max" size="135168"/>
<aspace type="total" size="135168"/>
<aspace type="mprotect" size="135168"/>
</malloc>

============ After allocating blocks ============
<malloc version="1">
<heap nr="0">
<sizes>
</sizes>
<total type="fast" count="0" size="0"/>
<total type="rest" count="0" size="0"/>
<system type="current" size="1081344"/>
<system type="max" size="1081344"/>
<aspace type="total" size="1081344"/>
<aspace type="mprotect" size="1081344"/>
</heap>
<heap nr="1">
<sizes>
</sizes>
<total type="fast" count="0" size="0"/>
<total type="rest" count="0" size="0"/>
<system type="current" size="1032192"/>
<system type="max" size="1032192"/>
<aspace type="total" size="1032192"/>
<aspace type="mprotect" size="1032192"/>
</heap>
<total type="fast" count="0" size="0"/>
<total type="rest" count="0" size="0"/>
<system type="current" size="2113536"/>
<system type="max" size="2113536"/>
<aspace type="total" size="2113536"/>
<aspace type="mprotect" size="2113536"/>
</malloc>
.fi
.in
.SS Program source
.nf

#include <unistd.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <pthread.h>
#include <malloc.h>
#include <errno.h>

static size_t blockSize;
static int numThreads, numBlocks;

#define errExit(msg)    do { perror(msg); exit(EXIT_FAILURE); \\
                        } while (0)

static void *
thread_func(void *arg)
{
    int j;
    int tn = (int) arg;

    /* The multiplier \(aq(2 + tn)\(aq ensures that each thread (including
       the main thread) allocates a different amount of memory */

    for (j = 0; j < numBlocks; j++)
        if (malloc(blockSize * (2 + tn)) == NULL)
            errExit("malloc\-thread");

    sleep(100);         /* Sleep until main thread terminates */
    return NULL;
}

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    int j, tn, sleepTime;
    pthread_t *thr;

    if (argc < 4) {
        fprintf(stderr,
                "%s num\-threads num\-blocks block\-size [sleep\-time]\\n",
                argv[0]);
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    numThreads = atoi(argv[1]);
    numBlocks = atoi(argv[2]);
    blockSize = atoi(argv[3]);
    sleepTime = (argc > 4) ? atoi(argv[4]) : 0;

    thr = calloc(numThreads, sizeof(pthread_t));
    if (thr == NULL)
        errExit("calloc");

    printf("============ Before allocating blocks ============\\n");
    malloc_info(0, stdout);

    /* Create threads that allocate different amounts of memory */

    for (tn = 0; tn < numThreads; tn++) {
        errno = pthread_create(&thr[tn], NULL, thread_func,
                               (void *) tn);
        if (errno != 0)
            errExit("pthread_create");

        /* If we add a sleep interval after the start\-up of each
           thread, the threads likely won\(aqt contend for malloc
           mutexes, and therefore additional arenas won\(aqt be
           allocated (see malloc(3)). */

        if (sleepTime > 0)
            sleep(sleepTime);
    }

    /* The main thread also allocates some memory */

    for (j = 0; j < numBlocks; j++)
        if (malloc(blockSize) == NULL)
            errExit("malloc");

    sleep(2);           /* Give all threads a chance to
                           complete allocations */

    printf("\\n============ After allocating blocks ============\\n");
    malloc_info(0, stdout);

    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mallinfo (3),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR malloc_stats (3),
.BR mallopt (3),
.BR open_memstream (3)
