'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MALLOC_STATS 3  2015-07-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
malloc_stats \- print memory allocation statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <malloc.h>

.B void malloc_stats(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR malloc_stats ()
function prints (on standard error) statistics about memory allocated by
.BR malloc (3)
and related functions.
For each arena (allocation area), this function prints
the total amount of memory allocated
and the total number of bytes consumed by in-use allocations.
(These two values correspond to the
.I arena
and
.I uordblks
fields retrieved by
.BR mallinfo (3).)
In addition,
the function prints the sum of these two statistics for all arenas,
and the maximum number of blocks and bytes that were ever simultaneously
allocated using
.BR mmap (2).
.\" .SH VERSIONS
.\" Available already in glibc 2.0, possibly earlier
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR malloc_stats ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
This function is a GNU extension.
.SH NOTES
More detailed information about memory allocations in the main arena
can be obtained using
.BR mallinfo (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mmap (2),
.BR mallinfo (3),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR malloc_info (3),
.BR mallopt (3)
