.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright 2015 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:41:09 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH MEMCPY 3  2015-07-23 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
memcpy \- copy memory area
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "void *memcpy(void *" dest ", const void *" src ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR memcpy ()
function copies \fIn\fP bytes from memory area
\fIsrc\fP to memory area \fIdest\fP.
The memory areas must not overlap.
Use
.BR memmove (3)
if the memory areas do overlap.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR memcpy ()
function returns a pointer to \fIdest\fP.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR memcpy ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, C89, C99, SVr4, 4.3BSD.
.SH NOTES
Failure to observe the requirement that the memory areas
do not overlap has been the source of real bugs.
(POSIX and the C standards are explicit that employing
.BR memcpy ()
with overlapping areas produces undefined behavior.)
Most notably, in glibc 2.13
.\" glibc commit 6fb8cbcb58a29fff73eb2101b34caa19a7f88eba
a performance optimization of
.BR memcpy ()
on some platforms (including x86-64) included changing the order
.\" From forward copying to backward copying
in which bytes were copied from
.I src
to
.IR dest .

This change revealed breakages in a number of applications that performed
copying with overlapping areas.
.\" Adobe Flash player was the highest profile example:
.\"   https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=638477
.\"   Reported: 2010-09-29 02:35 EDT by JCHuynh
.\"   Bug 638477 - Strange sound on mp3 flash website
.\"
.\"   https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=12518
.\"   Bug 12518 - memcpy acts randomly (and differently) with overlapping areas
.\"   Reported:       2011-02-25 02:26 UTC by Linus Torvalds
.\"
Under the previous implementation,
the order in which the bytes were copied had fortuitously hidden the bug,
which was revealed when the copying order was reversed.
In glibc 2.14,
.\" glibc commit 0354e355014b7bfda32622e0255399d859862fcd
a versioned symbol was added so that old binaries
(i.e., those linked against glibc versions earlier than 2.14)
employed a
.BR memcpy ()
implementation that safely handles the overlapping buffers case
(by providing an "older"
.BR memcpy ()
implementation that was aliased to
.BR memmove (3)).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bcopy (3),
.BR memccpy (3),
.BR memmove (3),
.BR mempcpy (3),
.BR strcpy (3),
.BR strncpy (3),
.BR wmemcpy (3)
