'\" t
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH MQ_UNLINK 3 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mq_unlink \- remove a message queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <mqueue.h>
.sp
.BI "int mq_unlink(const char *" name );
.fi
.sp
Link with \fI\-lrt\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR mq_unlink ()
removes the specified message queue
.IR name .
The message queue name is removed immediately.
The queue itself is destroyed once any other processes that have
the queue open close their descriptors referring to the queue.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR mq_unlink ()
returns 0; on error, \-1 is returned, with
.I errno
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
The caller does not have permission to unlink this message queue.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I name
was too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
There is no message queue with the given
.IR name .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR mq_unlink ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mq_close (3),
.BR mq_getattr (3),
.BR mq_notify (3),
.BR mq_open (3),
.BR mq_receive (3),
.BR mq_send (3),
.BR mq_overview (7)
