.\" This manpage copyright 1998 by Andi Kleen.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPL_NOVERSION_ONELINE)
.\" Subject to the GPL.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Based on the original comments from Alexey Kuznetsov
.\" $Id: netlink.3,v 1.1 1999/05/14 17:17:24 freitag Exp $
.\"
.TH NETLINK 3 2014-03-20 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
netlink \- Netlink macros
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <asm/types.h>
.br
.B #include <linux/netlink.h>
.sp
.BI "int NLMSG_ALIGN(size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int NLMSG_LENGTH(size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int NLMSG_SPACE(size_t " len );
.br
.BI "void *NLMSG_DATA(struct nlmsghdr *" nlh );
.br
.BI "struct nlmsghdr *NLMSG_NEXT(struct nlmsghdr *" nlh ", int " len );
.br
.BI "int NLMSG_OK(struct nlmsghdr *" nlh ", int " len );
.br
.BI "int NLMSG_PAYLOAD(struct nlmsghdr *" nlh ", int " len );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I <linux/netlink.h>
defines several standard macros to access or create a netlink datagram.
They are similar in spirit to the macros defined in
.BR cmsg (3)
for auxiliary data.
The buffer passed to and from a netlink socket should
be accessed using only these macros.
.TP
.BR NLMSG_ALIGN ()
Round the length of a netlink message up to align it properly.
.TP
.BR NLMSG_LENGTH ()
Given the payload length,
.IR len ,
this macro returns the aligned length to store in the
.I nlmsg_len
field of the
.IR nlmsghdr .
.TP
.BR NLMSG_SPACE ()
Return the number of bytes that a netlink message with payload of
.I len
would occupy.
.TP
.BR NLMSG_DATA ()
Return a pointer to the payload associated with the passed
.IR nlmsghdr .
.TP
.\" this is bizarre, maybe the interface should be fixed.
.BR NLMSG_NEXT ()
Get the next
.I nlmsghdr
in a multipart message.
The caller must check if the current
.I nlmsghdr
didn't have the
.B NLMSG_DONE
set\(emthis function doesn't return NULL on end.
The
.I len
argument is an lvalue containing the remaining length
of the message buffer.
This macro decrements it by the length of the message header.
.TP
.BR NLMSG_OK ()
Return true if the netlink message is not truncated and
is in a form suitable for parsing.
.TP
.BR NLMSG_PAYLOAD ()
Return the length of the payload associated with the
.IR nlmsghdr .
.SH CONFORMING TO
These macros are nonstandard Linux extensions.
.SH NOTES
It is often better to use netlink via
.I libnetlink
than via the low-level kernel interface.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libnetlink (3),
.BR netlink (7)
