.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:46:01 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 11 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" 2007-07-30 Ulrich Drepper <drepper@redhat.com>: document fdopendir().
.TH OPENDIR 3  2015-12-28 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
opendir, fdopendir \- open a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "DIR *opendir(const char *" name );
.BI "DIR *fdopendir(int " fd );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR fdopendir ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR opendir ()
function opens a directory stream corresponding to the
directory \fIname\fP, and returns a pointer to the directory stream.
The stream is positioned at the first entry in the directory.

The
.BR fdopendir ()
function
is like
.BR opendir (),
but returns a directory stream for the directory referred
to by the open file descriptor
.IR fd .
After a successful call to
.BR fdopendir (),
.I fd
is used internally by the implementation,
and should not otherwise be used by the application.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR opendir ()
and
.BR fdopendir ()
functions return a pointer to the directory stream.
On error, NULL is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Permission denied.
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor opened for reading.
.TP
.B EMFILE
The per-process limit on the number of open file descriptors has been reached.
.TP
.B ENFILE
The system-wide limit on the total number of open files has been reached.
.TP
.B ENOENT
Directory does not exist, or \fIname\fP is an empty string.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory to complete the operation.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
\fIname\fP is not a directory.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR fdopendir ()
is available in glibc since version 2.4.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw22 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR opendir (),
.BR fdopendir ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR opendir ()
is present on SVr4, 4.3BSD, and specified in POSIX.1-2001.
.BR fdopendir ()
is specified in POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
The underlying file descriptor of the directory stream can be obtained using
.BR dirfd (3).

The
.BR opendir ()
function sets the close-on-exec flag for the file descriptor underlying the
.IR "DIR *" .
The
.BR fdopendir ()
function leaves the setting of the close-on-exec
flag unchanged for the file descriptor,
.IR fd .
POSIX.1-200x leaves it unspecified whether a successful call to
.BR fdopendir ()
will set the close-on-exec flag for the file descriptor,
.IR fd .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open (2),
.BR closedir (3),
.BR dirfd (3),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR scandir (3),
.BR seekdir (3),
.BR telldir (3)
