.\" Copyright 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)popen.3	6.4 (Berkeley) 4/30/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 14:45:38 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Modified Sat May 18 20:37:44 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\" Modified 7 May 1998 by Joseph S. Myers (jsm28@cam.ac.uk)
.\"
.TH POPEN 3  2015-08-08 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
popen, pclose \- pipe stream to or from a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "FILE *popen(const char *" command ", const char *" type );
.sp
.BI "int pclose(FILE *" stream );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.ad l
.in
.sp
.BR popen (),
.BR pclose ():
.RS 4
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 2 || _XOPEN_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR popen ()
function opens a process by creating a pipe, forking, and invoking the
shell.
Since a pipe is by definition unidirectional, the
.I type
argument may specify only reading or writing, not both; the resulting
stream is correspondingly read-only or write-only.
.PP
The
.I command
argument is a pointer to a null-terminated string containing a shell
command line.
This command is passed to
.I /bin/sh
using the
.B \-c
flag; interpretation, if any, is performed by the shell.

The
.I type
argument is a pointer to a null-terminated string which must contain
either the letter \(aqr\(aq for reading or the letter \(aqw\(aq for writing.
Since glibc 2.9,
this argument can additionally include the letter \(aqe\(aq,
which causes the close-on-exec flag
.RB ( FD_CLOEXEC )
to be set on the underlying file descriptor;
see the description of the
.B O_CLOEXEC
flag in
.BR open (2)
for reasons why this may be useful.
.PP
The return value from
.BR popen ()
is a normal standard I/O stream in all respects save that it must be closed
with
.BR pclose ()
rather than
.BR fclose (3).
Writing to such a stream writes to the standard input of the command; the
command's standard output is the same as that of the process that called
.BR popen (),
unless this is altered by the command itself.
Conversely, reading from
the stream reads the command's standard output, and the command's
standard input is the same as that of the process that called
.BR popen ().
.PP
Note that output
.BR popen ()
streams are block buffered by default.
.PP
The
.BR pclose ()
function waits for the associated process to terminate and returns the exit
status of the command as returned by
.BR wait4 (2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR popen ()
function returns NULL if the
.BR fork (2)
or
.BR pipe (2)
calls fail, or if it cannot allocate memory.
.PP
The
.BR pclose ()
function returns \-1 if
.\" These conditions actually give undefined results, so I commented
.\" them out.
.\" .I stream
.\" is not associated with a "popen()ed" command, if
.\".I stream
.\" already "pclose()d", or if
.BR wait4 (2)
returns an error, or some other error is detected.
In the event of an error, these functions set
.I errno
to indicate the cause of the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR popen ()
function does not set
.I errno
if memory allocation fails.
If the underlying
.BR fork (2)
or
.BR pipe (2)
fails,
.I errno
is set appropriately.
If the
.I type
argument is invalid, and this condition is detected,
.I errno
is set to
.BR EINVAL .
.PP
If
.BR pclose ()
cannot obtain the child status,
.I errno
is set to
.BR ECHILD .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw17 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR popen (),
.BR pclose ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.

The \(aqe\(aq value for
.I type
is a Linux extension.
.SH BUGS
Since the standard input of a command opened for reading shares its seek
offset with the process that called
.BR popen (),
if the original process has done a buffered read, the command's input
position may not be as expected.
Similarly, the output from a command
opened for writing may become intermingled with that of the original
process.
The latter can be avoided by calling
.BR fflush (3)
before
.BR popen ().
.PP
Failure to execute the shell is indistinguishable from the shell's failure
to execute command, or an immediate exit of the command.
The only hint is an exit status of 127.
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" A
.\" .BR popen ()
.\" and a
.\" .BR pclose ()
.\" function appeared in Version 7 AT&T UNIX.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sh (1),
.BR fork (2),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR wait4 (2),
.BR fclose (3),
.BR fflush (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR stdio (3),
.BR system (3)
