.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH POSIX_FALLOCATE 3  2015-12-05 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
posix_fallocate \- allocate file space
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.sp
.BI "int posix_fallocate(int " fd ", off_t " offset ", off_t " len );
.fi
.sp
.ad l
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR posix_fallocate ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR posix_fallocate ()
ensures that disk space is allocated for the file referred to by the
file descriptor
.I fd
for the bytes in the range starting at
.I offset
and continuing for
.I len
bytes.
After a successful call to
.BR posix_fallocate (),
subsequent writes to bytes in the specified range are
guaranteed not to fail because of lack of disk space.

If the size of the file is less than
.IR offset + len ,
then the file is increased to this size;
otherwise the file size is left unchanged.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR posix_fallocate ()
returns zero on success, or an error number on failure.
Note that
.I errno
is not set.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor, or is not opened for writing.
.TP
.B EFBIG
.I offset+len
exceeds the maximum file size.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I offset
was less than 0, or
.I len
was less than or equal to 0, or the underlying filesystem does not
support the operation.
.TP
.B ENODEV
.I fd
does not refer to a regular file.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
There is not enough space left on the device containing the file
referred to by
.IR fd .
.TP
.B ESPIPE
.I fd
refers to a pipe.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR posix_fallocate ()
is available since glibc 2.1.94.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR posix_fallocate ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe (but see NOTES)
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.

POSIX.1-2008 says that an implementation
.I shall
give the
.B EINVAL
error if
.I len
was 0, or
.I offset
was less than 0.
POSIX.1-2001 says that an implementation
.I shall
give the
.B EINVAL
error if
.I len
is less than 0, or
.I offset
was less than 0, and
.I may
give the error if
.I len
equals zero.
.SH NOTES
In the glibc implementation,
.BR posix_fallocate ()
is implemented using the
.BR fallocate (2)
system call, which is MT-safe.
If the underlying filesystem does not support
.BR fallocate (2),
then the operation is emulated with the following caveats:
.IP * 2
The emulation is inefficient.
.IP *
There is a race condition where concurrent writes from another thread or
process could be overwritten with null bytes.
.IP *
There is a race condition where concurrent file size increases by
another thread or process could result in a file whose size is smaller
than expected.
.IP *
If
.I fd
has been opened with the
.B O_APPEND
or
.B O_WRONLY
flags, the function will fail with the error
.B EBADF.
.PP
In general, the emulation is not MT-safe.
On Linux, applications may use
.BR fallocate (2)
if they cannot tolerate the emulation caveats.
In general, this is
only recommended if the application plans to terminate the operation if
.B EOPNOTSUPP
is returned, otherwise the application itself will need to implement a
fallback with all the same problems as the emulation provided by glibc.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fallocate (1),
.BR fallocate (2),
.BR lseek (2),
.BR posix_fadvise (2)
