.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 1995-08-14 by Arnt Gulbrandsen <agulbra@troll.no>
.\" Modified 2002-07-27 by Walter Harms
.\" 	(walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.TH POW 3  2015-04-19 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pow, powf, powl \- power functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double pow(double " x ", double " y );
.br
.BI "float powf(float " x ", float " y );
.br
.BI "long double powl(long double " x ", long double " y );
.fi
.sp
Link with \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR powf (),
.BR powl ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions return the value of
.I x
raised to the
power of
.IR y .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return the value of
.I x
to the power of
.IR y .

If
.I x
is a finite value less than 0, and
.I y
is a finite noninteger, a domain error occurs,
.\" The domain error is generated at least as far back as glibc 2.4
and a NaN is returned.

If the result overflows,
a range error occurs,
.\" The range error is generated at least as far back as glibc 2.4
and the functions return
.BR HUGE_VAL ,
.BR HUGE_VALF ,
or
.BR HUGE_VALL ,
respectively, with the mathematically correct sign.

If result underflows, and is not representable,
a range error occurs,
and 0.0 is returned.
.\" POSIX.1 does not specify the sign of the zero,
.\" but http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=2678
.\" points out that the zero has the wrong sign in some cases.

Except as specified below, if
.I x
or
.I y
is a NaN, the result is a NaN.

If
.I x
is +1, the result is 1.0 (even if
.I y
is a NaN).

If
.I y
is 0, the result is 1.0 (even if
.I x
is a NaN).

If
.I x
is +0 (\-0),
and
.I y
is an odd integer greater than 0,
the result is +0 (\-0).

If
.I x
is 0,
and
.I y
greater than 0 and not an odd integer,
the result is +0.

If
.I x
is \-1,
and
.I y
is positive infinity or negative infinity,
the result is 1.0.

If the absolute value of
.I x
is less than 1,
and
.I y
is negative infinity,
the result is positive infinity.

If the absolute value of
.I x
is greater than 1,
and
.I y
is negative infinity,
the result is +0.

If the absolute value of
.I x
is less than 1,
and
.I y
is positive infinity,
the result is +0.

If the absolute value of
.I x
is greater than 1,
and
.I y
is positive infinity,
the result is positive infinity.

If
.I x
is negative infinity,
and
.I y
is an odd integer less than 0,
the result is \-0.

If
.I x
is negative infinity,
and
.I y
less than 0 and not an odd integer,
the result is +0.

If
.I x
is negative infinity,
and
.I y
is an odd integer greater than 0,
the result is negative infinity.

If
.I x
is negative infinity,
and
.I y
greater than 0 and not an odd integer,
the result is positive infinity.

If
.I x
is positive infinity,
and
.I y
less than 0,
the result is +0.

If
.I x
is positive infinity,
and
.I y
greater than 0,
the result is positive infinity.

If
.I x
is +0 or \-0,
and
.I y
is an odd integer less than 0,
a pole error occurs and
.BR HUGE_VAL ,
.BR HUGE_VALF ,
or
.BR HUGE_VALL ,
is returned,
with the same sign as
.IR x .

If
.I x
is +0 or \-0,
and
.I y
is less than 0 and not an odd integer,
a pole error occurs and
.\" The pole error is generated at least as far back as glibc 2.4
.RB + HUGE_VAL ,
.RB + HUGE_VALF ,
or
.RB + HUGE_VALL ,
is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.\" FIXME . review status of this error
.\" longstanding bug report for glibc:
.\" http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=369
.\" For negative x, and -large and +large y, glibc 2.8 gives incorrect
.\" results
.\" pow(-0.5,-DBL_MAX)=nan
.\" EDOM FE_INVALID nan; fail-errno fail-except fail-result;
.\" FAIL (expected: range-error-overflow (ERANGE, FE_OVERFLOW); +INF)
.\"
.\" pow(-1.5,-DBL_MAX)=nan
.\" EDOM FE_INVALID nan; fail-errno fail-except fail-result;
.\" FAIL (expected: range-error-underflow (ERANGE, FE_UNDERFLOW); +0)
.\"
.\" pow(-0.5,DBL_MAX)=nan
.\" EDOM FE_INVALID nan; fail-errno fail-except fail-result;
.\" FAIL (expected: range-error-underflow (ERANGE, FE_UNDERFLOW); +0)
.\"
.\" pow(-1.5,DBL_MAX)=nan
.\" EDOM FE_INVALID nan; fail-errno fail-except fail-result;
.\" FAIL (expected: range-error-overflow (ERANGE, FE_OVERFLOW); +INF)
See
.BR math_error (7)
for information on how to determine whether an error has occurred
when calling these functions.
.PP
The following errors can occur:
.TP
Domain error: \fIx\fP is negative, and \fIy\fP is a finite noninteger
.I errno
is set to
.BR EDOM .
An invalid floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_INVALID )
is raised.
.TP
Pole error: \fIx\fP is zero, and \fIy\fP is negative
.I errno
is set to
.BR ERANGE
(but see BUGS).
A divide-by-zero floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_DIVBYZERO )
is raised.
.TP
Range error: the result overflows
.I errno
is set to
.BR ERANGE .
An overflow floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_OVERFLOW )
is raised.
.TP
Range error: the result underflows
.I errno
is set to
.BR ERANGE .
An underflow floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_UNDERFLOW )
is raised.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw21 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pow (),
.BR powf (),
.BR powl ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.

The variant returning
.I double
also conforms to
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89.
.SH BUGS
On 64-bits,
.\"
.\" https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=13932
.BR pow ()
may be more than 10,000 times slower for some (rare) inputs
than for other nearby inputs.
This affects only
.BR pow (),
and not
.BR powf ()
nor
.BR powl ().

In glibc 2.9 and earlier,
.\"
.\" http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6776
when a pole error occurs,
.I errno
is set to
.BR EDOM
instead of the POSIX-mandated
.BR ERANGE .
Since version 2.10,
.\" or possibly 2.9, I haven't found the source code change
.\" and I don't have a 2.9 system to test
glibc does the right thing.

If
.I x
is negative,
then large negative or positive
.I y
values yield a NaN as the function result, with
.I errno
set to
.BR EDOM ,
and an invalid
.RB ( FE_INVALID )
floating-point exception.
For example, with
.BR pow (),
one sees this behavior when the absolute value of
.I y
is greater than about 9.223373e18.
.\" see bug http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=3866
.\" and http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=369

In version 2.3.2 and earlier,
.\" FIXME . Actually, 2.3.2 is the earliest test result I have; so yet
.\" to confirm if this error occurs only in 2.3.2.
when an overflow or underflow error occurs, glibc's
.BR pow ()
generates a bogus invalid floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_INVALID )
in addition to the overflow or underflow exception.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cbrt (3),
.BR cpow (3),
.BR sqrt (3)
