.\" Copyright 2004 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH POW10 3  2015-03-02 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pow10, pow10f, pow10l \- base-10 power functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double pow10(double " x );
.br
.BI "float pow10f(float " x );
.br
.BI "long double pow10l(long double " x );
.fi
.sp
Link with \fI\-lm\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions return the value of 10 raised to the power
.IR x .
.SH VERSIONS
These functions first appeared in glibc in version 2.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw28 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pow10 (),
.BR pow10f (),
.BR pow10l ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
This is a GNU extension.
.SH NOTES
These functions are identical to the functions listed under
.BR exp10 (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exp10 (3),
.BR pow (3)
