.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_TESTCANCEL 3 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_testcancel \- request delivery of any pending cancellation request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.B void pthread_testcancel(void);
.sp
Compile and link with \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Calling
.BR pthread_testcancel ()
creates a cancellation point within the calling thread,
so that a thread that is otherwise executing code that contains
no cancellation points will respond to a cancellation request.

If cancelability is disabled (using
.BR pthread_setcancelstate (3)),
or no cancellation request is pending,
then a call to
.BR pthread_testcancel ()
has no effect.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function does not return a value.
If the calling thread is canceled as a consequence of a call
to this function, then the function does not return.
.SH ERRORS
This function always succeeds.
.\" SH VERSIONS
.\" Available since glibc 2.0
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw20 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pthread_testcancel ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH EXAMPLE
See
.BR pthread_cleanup_push (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pthread_cancel (3),
.BR pthread_cleanup_push (3),
.BR pthread_setcancelstate (3),
.BR pthreads (7)
