.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_DETACH 3 2015-07-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_detach \- detach a thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "int pthread_detach(pthread_t " thread );
.fi
.sp
Compile and link with \fI\-pthread\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_detach ()
function marks the thread identified by
.IR thread
as detached.
When a detached thread terminates,
its resources are automatically released back to the system without
the need for another thread to join with the terminated thread.

Attempting to detach an already detached thread results
in unspecified behavior.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR pthread_detach ()
returns 0;
on error, it returns an error number.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I thread
is not a joinable thread.
.TP
.B ESRCH
No thread with the ID
.I thread
could be found.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pthread_detach ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
Once a thread has been detached, it can't be joined with
.BR pthread_join (3)
or be made joinable again.

A new thread can be created in a detached state using
.BR pthread_attr_setdetachstate (3)
to set the detached attribute of the
.I attr
argument of
.BR pthread_create (3).

The detached attribute merely determines the behavior of the system
when the thread terminates;
it does not prevent the thread from being terminated
if the process terminates using
.BR exit (3)
(or equivalently, if the main thread returns).

Either
.BR pthread_join (3)
or
.BR pthread_detach ()
should be called for each thread that an application creates,
so that system resources for the thread can be released.
(But note that the resources of all threads are freed when the
process terminates.)
.SH EXAMPLE
The following statement detaches the calling thread:

    pthread_detach(pthread_self());
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pthread_attr_setdetachstate (3),
.BR pthread_cancel (3),
.BR pthread_create (3),
.BR pthread_exit (3),
.BR pthread_join (3),
.BR pthreads (7)
