.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_ATTR_SETAFFINITY_NP 3 2015-07-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_attr_setaffinity_np, pthread_attr_getaffinity_np \- set/get
CPU affinity attribute in thread attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "int pthread_attr_setaffinity_np(pthread_attr_t *" attr ,
.BI "                   size_t " cpusetsize ", const cpu_set_t *" cpuset );
.BI "int pthread_attr_getaffinity_np(const pthread_attr_t *" attr ,
.BI "                   size_t " cpusetsize ", cpu_set_t *" cpuset );
.sp
Compile and link with \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_attr_setaffinity_np ()
function
sets the CPU affinity mask attribute of the
thread attributes object referred to by
.I attr
to the value specified in
.IR cpuset .
This attribute determines the CPU affinity mask
of a thread created using the thread attributes object
.IR attr .

The
.BR pthread_attr_getaffinity_np ()
function
returns the CPU affinity mask attribute of the thread attributes object
referred to by
.IR attr
in the buffer pointed to by
.IR cpuset .

The argument
.I cpusetsize
is the length (in bytes) of the buffer pointed to by
.IR cpuset .
Typically, this argument would be specified as
.IR sizeof(cpu_set_t) .

For more details on CPU affinity masks, see
.BR sched_setaffinity (2).
For a description of a set of macros
that can be used to manipulate and inspect CPU sets, see
.BR CPU_SET (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return 0;
on error, they return a nonzero error number.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.BR EINVAL
.RB ( pthread_attr_setaffinity_np ())
.I cpuset
specified a CPU that was outside the set supported by the kernel.
(The kernel configuration option
.BR CONFIG_NR_CPUS
defines the range of the set supported by the kernel data type
.\" cpumask_t
used to represent CPU sets.)
.\" The raw sched_getaffinity() system call returns the size (in bytes)
.\" of the cpumask_t type.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.RB ( pthread_attr_getaffinity_np ())
A CPU in the affinity mask of the thread attributes object referred to by
.I attr
lies outside the range specified by
.IR cpusetsize
(i.e.,
.IR cpuset / cpusetsize
is too small).
.TP
.B ENOMEM
.RB ( pthread_attr_setaffinity_np ())
Could not allocate memory.
.SH VERSIONS
These functions are provided by glibc since version 2.3.4.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw30 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pthread_attr_setaffinity_np (),
.BR pthread_attr_getaffinity_np ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions are nonstandard GNU extensions;
hence the suffix "_np" (nonportable) in the names.
.SH NOTES
In glibc 2.3.3 only,
versions of these functions were provided that did not have a
.I cpusetsize
argument.
Instead the CPU set size given to the underlying system calls was always
.IR sizeof(cpu_set_t) .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sched_setaffinity (2),
.BR pthread_attr_init (3),
.BR pthread_setaffinity_np (3),
.BR cpuset (7),
.BR pthreads (7)
