.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_EQUAL 3 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_equal \- compare thread IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "int pthread_equal(pthread_t " t1 ", pthread_t " t2 );
.sp
Compile and link with \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_equal ()
function compares two thread identifiers.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If the two thread IDs are equal,
.BR pthread_equal ()
returns a nonzero value; otherwise, it returns 0.
.SH ERRORS
This function always succeeds.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pthread_equal ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
The
.BR pthread_equal ()
function is necessary because thread IDs should be considered opaque:
there is no portable way for applications to directly compare two
.I pthread_t
values.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pthread_create (3),
.BR pthread_self (3),
.BR pthreads (7)
