.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_SIGMASK 3 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_sigmask \- examine and change mask of blocked signals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>

.BI "int pthread_sigmask(int " how ", const sigset_t *" set \
", sigset_t *" oldset );
.fi
.sp
Compile and link with \fI\-pthread\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR pthread_sigmask ():
.RS 4
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 199506L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_sigmask ()
function is just like
.BR sigprocmask (2),
with the difference that its use in multithreaded programs
is explicitly specified by POSIX.1.
Other differences are noted in this page.

For a description of the arguments and operation of this function, see
.BR sigprocmask (2).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR pthread_sigmask ()
returns 0;
on error, it returns an error number.
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR sigprocmask (2).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pthread_sigmask ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
A new thread inherits a copy of its creator's signal mask.

The glibc
.BR pthread_sigmask ()
function silently ignores attempts to block the two real-time signals that
are used internally by the NPTL threading implementation.
See
.BR nptl (7)
for details.
.SH EXAMPLE
The program below blocks some signals in the main thread,
and then creates a dedicated thread to fetch those signals via
.BR sigwait (3).
The following shell session demonstrates its use:

.in +4n
.nf
.RB "$" " ./a.out &"
[1] 5423
.RB "$" " kill \-QUIT %1"
Signal handling thread got signal 3
.RB "$" " kill \-USR1 %1"
Signal handling thread got signal 10
.RB "$" " kill \-TERM %1"
[1]+  Terminated              ./a.out
.fi
.in
.SS Program source
\&
.nf
#include <pthread.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <signal.h>
#include <errno.h>

/* Simple error handling functions */

#define handle_error_en(en, msg) \\
        do { errno = en; perror(msg); exit(EXIT_FAILURE); } while (0)

static void *
sig_thread(void *arg)
{
    sigset_t *set = arg;
    int s, sig;

    for (;;) {
        s = sigwait(set, &sig);
        if (s != 0)
            handle_error_en(s, "sigwait");
        printf("Signal handling thread got signal %d\\n", sig);
    }
}

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    pthread_t thread;
    sigset_t set;
    int s;

    /* Block SIGQUIT and SIGUSR1; other threads created by main()
       will inherit a copy of the signal mask. */

    sigemptyset(&set);
    sigaddset(&set, SIGQUIT);
    sigaddset(&set, SIGUSR1);
    s = pthread_sigmask(SIG_BLOCK, &set, NULL);
    if (s != 0)
        handle_error_en(s, "pthread_sigmask");

    s = pthread_create(&thread, NULL, &sig_thread, (void *) &set);
    if (s != 0)
        handle_error_en(s, "pthread_create");

    /* Main thread carries on to create other threads and/or do
       other work */

    pause();            /* Dummy pause so we can test program */
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigpending (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR pthread_create (3),
.BR pthread_kill (3),
.BR sigsetops (3),
.BR pthreads (7),
.BR signal (7)
