.\"Copyright (c) 2010 Novell Inc., written by Robert Schweikert
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_RWLOCKATTR_SETKIND_NP 3 2014-10-15 "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_rwlockattr_setkind_np, pthread_rwlockattr_getkind_np \- set/get
the read-write lock kind of the thread read-write lock attribute object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "int pthread_rwlockattr_setkind_np(pthread_rwlockattr_t *" attr ,
.BI "                                   int " pref );
.BI "int pthread_rwlockattr_getkind_np(const pthread_rwlockattr_t *" attr ,
.BI "                                   int *" pref );
.sp
Compile and link with \fI\-pthread\fP.
.sp
.fi
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR pthread_rwlockattr_setkind_np (),
.BR pthread_rwlockattr_getkind_np ():
.br
.RS 4
.ad l
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200809L
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_rwlockattr_setkind_np ()
function sets the "lock kind" attribute of the
read-write lock attribute object referred to by
.I attr
to the value specified in
.IR pref .
The argument
.I pref
may be set to one of the following:
.TP
.B PTHREAD_RWLOCK_PREFER_READER_NP
This is the default.
A thread may hold multiple read locks; that is, read locks are recursive.
According to The Single Unix Specification, the behavior is unspecified when a
reader tries to place a lock, and there is no write lock but writers are
waiting.
Giving preference to the reader, as is set by
.BR PTHREAD_RWLOCK_PREFER_READER_NP ,
implies that the reader will receive the requested lock, even if
a writer is waiting.
As long as there are readers, the writer will be
starved.
.TP
.B PTHREAD_RWLOCK_PREFER_WRITER_NP
This is intended as the write lock analog of
.BR PTHREAD_RWLOCK_PREFER_READER_NP .
But see BUGS.
.TP
.B PTHREAD_RWLOCK_PREFER_WRITER_NONRECURSIVE_NP
Setting the lock kind to this
avoids writer starvation as long as any read locking is not done in a
recursive fashion.
.PP
The
.BR pthread_rwlockattr_getkind_np ()
function returns the value of the lock kind attribute of the
read-write lock attribute object referred to by
.IR attr
in the pointer
.IR pref .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return 0.
Given valid pointer arguments,
.BR pthread_rwlockattr_getkind_np ()
always succeeds.
On error,
.BR pthread_rwlockattr_setkind_np ()
returns a non-zero error number.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.BR EINVAL
.I pref
specifies an unsupported value.
.SH BUGS
Setting the value read-write lock kind to
.BR  PTHREAD_RWLOCK_PREFER_WRITER_NP
results in the same behavior as setting the value to
.BR PTHREAD_RWLOCK_PREFER_READER_NP .
As long as a reader thread holds the lock, the thread holding a
write lock will be starved.
Setting the lock kind to
.BR PTHREAD_RWLOCK_PREFER_WRITER_NONRECURSIVE_NP
allows writers to run, but, as the name implies a writer
may not lock recursively.
.\" http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=7057
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR pthread_rwlockattr_getkind_np ()
and
.BR pthread_rwlockattr_setkind_np ()
functions first appeared in glibc 2.1.
.SH CONFORMING TO
These functions are non-standard GNU extensions;
hence the suffix "_np" (non-portable) in the names.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pthreads (7)
