.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_SETSCHEDPRIO 3 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_setschedprio \- set scheduling priority of a thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.BI "int pthread_setschedprio(pthread_t " thread ", int " prio );
.sp
Compile and link with \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_setschedprio ()
function sets the scheduling priority of the thread
.I thread
to the value specified in
.IR prio .
(By contrast
.BR pthread_setschedparam (3)
changes both the scheduling policy and priority of a thread.)
.\" FIXME . nptl/pthread_setschedprio.c has the following
.\"   /* If the thread should have higher priority because of some
.\"      PTHREAD_PRIO_PROTECT mutexes it holds, adjust the priority. */
.\" Eventually (perhaps after writing the mutexattr pages), we
.\" may want to add something on the topic to this page.
.\" nptl/pthread_setschedparam.c has a similar case.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, this function returns 0;
on error, it returns a nonzero error number.
If
.BR pthread_setschedprio ()
fails, the scheduling priority of
.I thread
is not changed.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I prio
is not valid for the scheduling policy of the specified thread.
.TP
.B EPERM
The caller does not have appropriate privileges
to set the specified priority.
.TP
.B ESRCH
No thread with the ID
.I thread
could be found.
.PP
POSIX.1 also documents an
.B ENOTSUP
("attempt was made to set the priority
to an unsupported value") error for
.BR pthread_setschedparam (3).
.SH VERSIONS
This function is available in glibc since version 2.3.4.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw22 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pthread_setschedprio ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
For a description of the permissions required to, and the effect of,
changing a thread's scheduling priority,
and details of the permitted ranges for priorities
in each scheduling policy, see
.BR sched (7).
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR sched_get_priority_min (2),
.BR pthread_attr_init (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setinheritsched (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setschedparam (3),
.BR pthread_attr_setschedpolicy (3),
.BR pthread_create (3),
.BR pthread_self (3),
.BR pthread_setschedparam (3),
.BR pthreads (7),
.BR sched (7)
