.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_SELF 3 2015-08-08 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_self \- obtain ID of the calling thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>

.B pthread_t pthread_self(void);
.sp
Compile and link with \fI\-pthread\fP.
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR pthread_self ()
function returns the ID of the calling thread.
This is the same value that is returned in
.IR *thread
in the
.BR pthread_create (3)
call that created this thread.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function always succeeds, returning the calling thread's ID.
.SH ERRORS
This function always succeeds.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pthread_self ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
POSIX.1 allows an implementation wide freedom in choosing
the type used to represent a thread ID;
for example, representation using either an arithmetic type or
a structure is permitted.
Therefore, variables of type
.I pthread_t
can't portably be compared using the C equality operator (\fB==\fP);
use
.BR pthread_equal (3)
instead.

Thread identifiers should be considered opaque:
any attempt to use a thread ID other than in pthreads calls
is nonportable and can lead to unspecified results.

Thread IDs are guaranteed to be unique only within a process.
A thread ID may be reused after a terminated thread has been joined,
or a detached thread has terminated.

The thread ID returned by
.BR pthread_self ()
is not the same thing as the kernel thread ID returned by a call to
.BR gettid (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pthread_create (3),
.BR pthread_equal (3),
.BR pthreads (7)
