.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Michael Kerrisk, <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_YIELD 3 2015-03-02 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_yield \- yield the processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "             /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <pthread.h>

.B int pthread_yield(void);
.fi
.sp
Compile and link with \fI\-pthread\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pthread_yield ()
causes the calling thread to relinquish the CPU.
The thread is placed at the end of the run queue for its static
priority and another thread is scheduled to run.
For further details, see
.BR sched_yield (2)
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR pthread_yield ()
returns 0;
on error, it returns an error number.
.SH ERRORS
On Linux, this call always succeeds
(but portable and future-proof applications should nevertheless
handle a possible error return).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pthread_yield ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
This call is nonstandard, but present on several other systems.
Use the standardized
.BR sched_yield (2)
instead.
.\" e.g., the BSDs, Tru64, AIX, and Irix.
.SH NOTES
On Linux, this function is implemented as a call to
.BR sched_yield (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sched_yield (2),
.BR pthreads (7),
.BR sched (7)
