.\" %%%LICENSE_START(PUBLIC_DOMAIN)
.\" This page is in the public domain. - aeb
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" 2004-12-17, mtk, added description of ptsname_r() + ERRORS
.\"
.TH PTSNAME 3 2015-08-08 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ptsname, ptsname_r \- get the name of the slave pseudoterminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _XOPEN_SOURCE" "       /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *ptsname(int " fd ");"
.sp
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int ptsname_r(int " fd ", char *" buf ", size_t " buflen ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ptsname ()
function returns the name of the slave pseudoterminal device
corresponding to the master referred to by
.IR fd .

The
.BR ptsname_r ()
function is the reentrant equivalent of
.BR ptsname ().
It returns the name of the slave pseudoterminal device as a
null-terminated string in the buffer pointed to by
.IR buf .
The
.I buflen
argument specifies the number of bytes available in
.IR buf .
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR ptsname ()
returns a pointer to a string in static storage which will be
overwritten by subsequent calls.
This pointer must not be freed.
On failure, NULL is returned.

On success,
.BR ptsname_r ()
returns 0.
On failure, a nonzero value is returned
and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.\" In fact the errno value is also returned as the function
.\" result -- MTK, Dec 04
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.RB ( ptsname_r ()
only)
.I buf
is NULL.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
.I fd
does not refer to a pseudoterminal master device.
.TP
.B ERANGE
.RB ( ptsname_r ()
only)
.I buf
is too small.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR ptsname ()
is provided in glibc since version 2.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR ptsname ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Unsafe race:ptsname
T{
.BR ptsname_r ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.

.BR ptsname ()
is part of the UNIX 98 pseudoterminal support (see
.BR pts (4)).

.BR ptsname_r ()
is a Linux extension.
A version of this function is documented on Tru64 and HP-UX, but
on those implementations, \-1 is returned on error, with
.I errno
set to indicate the error.
Avoid using this function in portable programs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR grantpt (3),
.BR posix_openpt (3),
.BR ttyname (3),
.BR unlockpt (3),
.BR pts (4),
.BR pty (7)
