.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" This replaces an earlier man page written by Walter Harms
.\" <walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>.
.\"
.TH QECVT 3  2015-03-02 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
qecvt, qfcvt, qgcvt \- convert a floating-point number to a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *qecvt(long double " number ", int " ndigits ", int *" decpt ,
.BI "int *" sign );
.sp
.BI "char *qfcvt(long double " number ", int " ndigits ", int *" decpt ,
.BI "int *" sign );
.sp
.BI "char *qgcvt(long double " number ", int " ndigit ", char *" buf );
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR qecvt (),
.BR qfcvt (),
.BR qgcvt ():
_SVID_SOURCE
.ad b
.\" FIXME . The full FTM picture looks to have be something like the
.\" following mess:
.\"    glibc 2.20 onward
.\"        _DEFAULT_SOURCE
.\"    glibc 2.18 to glibc 2.19
.\"        _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.\"    glibc 2.10 to glibc 2.17
.\"        _SVID_SOURCE || (_XOPEN_SOURCE >= 500 ||
.\"            (_XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED) &&
.\"                ! (_POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200809L || _XOPEN_SOURCE >= 700))
.\"    Before glibc 2.10:
.\"        _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE >= 500 ||
.\"            (_XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions
.BR qecvt (),
.BR qfcvt (),
and
.BR qgcvt ()
are identical to
.BR ecvt (3),
.BR fcvt (3),
and
.BR gcvt (3)
respectively, except that they use a
.I "long double"
argument
.IR number .
See
.BR ecvt (3)
and
.BR gcvt (3).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR qecvt ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Unsafe race:qecvt
T{
.BR qfcvt ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Unsafe race:qfcvt
T{
.BR qgcvt ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4.
Not seen in most common UNIX implementations,
but occurs in SunOS.
.\" Not supported by libc4 and libc5.
Supported by glibc.
.SH NOTES
These functions are obsolete.
Instead,
.BR snprintf (3)
is recommended.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ecvt (3),
.BR ecvt_r (3),
.BR gcvt (3),
.BR sprintf (3)
