.\" Copyright (C) 1999 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Rewritten old page, 990824, aeb@cwi.nl
.\" 2004-12-14, mtk, added discussion of resolved_path == NULL
.\"
.TH REALPATH 3  2015-04-19 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
realpath \- return the canonicalized absolute pathname
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <limits.h>
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *realpath(const char *" path ", char *" resolved_path );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR realpath ():
.ad l
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR realpath ()
expands all symbolic links and resolves references
to
.IR "/./" ", " "/../"
and extra \(aq/\(aq
characters in the null-terminated string named by
.I path
to produce a canonicalized absolute pathname.
The resulting pathname is stored as a null-terminated string,
up to a maximum of
.B PATH_MAX
bytes,
in the buffer pointed to by
.IR resolved_path .
The resulting path will have no symbolic link,
.I "/./"
or
.I "/../"
components.

If
.I resolved_path
is specified as NULL, then
.BR realpath ()
uses
.BR malloc (3)
to allocate a buffer of up to
.B PATH_MAX
bytes to hold the resolved pathname,
and returns a pointer to this buffer.
The caller should deallocate this buffer using
.BR free (3).
.\" Even if we use resolved_path == NULL, then realpath() will still
.\" return ENAMETOOLONG if the resolved pathname would exceed PATH_MAX
.\" bytes -- MTK, Dec 04
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" The
.\" .BR realpath ()
.\" function first appeared in 4.4BSD, contributed by Jan-Simon Pendry.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If there is no error,
.BR realpath ()
returns a pointer to the
.IR resolved_path .

Otherwise, it returns NULL, the contents
of the array
.I resolved_path
are undefined, and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Read or search permission was denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I path
is NULL.
.\" (In libc5 this would just cause a segfault.)
(In glibc versions before 2.3,
this error is also returned if
.IR resolved_path
is NULL.)
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from the filesystem.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
A component of a pathname exceeded
.B NAME_MAX
characters, or an entire pathname exceeded
.B PATH_MAX
characters.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Out of memory.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The named file does not exist.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR realpath ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.4BSD, POSIX.1-2001.

POSIX.1-2001 says that the behavior if
.I resolved_path
is NULL is implementation-defined.
POSIX.1-2008 specifies the behavior described in this page.
.SH NOTES
In 4.4BSD and Solaris, the limit on the pathname length is
.B MAXPATHLEN
(found in \fI<sys/param.h>\fP).
SUSv2 prescribes
.B PATH_MAX
and
.BR NAME_MAX ,
as found in \fI<limits.h>\fP or provided by the
.BR pathconf (3)
function.
A typical source fragment would be
.LP
.in +4n
.nf
#ifdef PATH_MAX
  path_max = PATH_MAX;
#else
  path_max = pathconf(path, _PC_PATH_MAX);
  if (path_max <= 0)
    path_max = 4096;
#endif
.fi
.in
.LP
(But see the BUGS section.)
.LP
.\"     2012-05-05, According to Casper Dik, the statement about
.\"     Solaris was not true at least as far back as 1997, and
.\"     may never have been true.
.\"
.\" The 4.4BSD, Linux and SUSv2 versions always return an absolute
.\" pathname.
.\" Solaris may return a relative pathname when the
.\" .I path
.\" argument is relative.
.\" The prototype of
.\" .BR realpath ()
.\" is given in \fI<unistd.h>\fP in libc4 and libc5,
.\" but in \fI<stdlib.h>\fP everywhere else.
.SS GNU extensions
If the call fails with either
.BR EACCES
or
.BR ENOENT
and
.I resolved_path
is not NULL, then the prefix of
.I path
that is not readable or does not exist is returned in
.IR resolved_path .
.SH BUGS
The POSIX.1-2001 standard version of this function is broken by design,
since it is impossible to determine a suitable size for the output buffer,
.IR resolved_path .
According to POSIX.1-2001 a buffer of size
.B PATH_MAX
suffices, but
.B PATH_MAX
need not be a defined constant, and may have to be obtained using
.BR pathconf (3).
And asking
.BR pathconf (3)
does not really help, since, on the one hand POSIX warns that
the result of
.BR pathconf (3)
may be huge and unsuitable for mallocing memory,
and on the other hand
.BR pathconf (3)
may return \-1 to signify that
.B PATH_MAX
is not bounded.
The
.I "resolved_path\ ==\ NULL"
feature, not standardized in POSIX.1-2001,
but standardized in POSIX.1-2008, allows this design problem to be avoided.
.\" .LP
.\" The libc4 and libc5 implementation contained a buffer overflow
.\" (fixed in libc-5.4.13).
.\" Thus, set-user-ID programs like
.\" .BR mount (8)
.\" needed a private version.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR realpath (1),
.BR readlink (2),
.BR canonicalize_file_name (3),
.BR getcwd (3),
.BR pathconf (3),
.BR sysconf (3)
