.\" Copyright 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\" and Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH RINT 3  2015-04-19 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
nearbyint, nearbyintf, nearbyintl, rint, rintf, rintl \- round
to nearest integer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double nearbyint(double " x );
.br
.BI "float nearbyintf(float " x );
.br
.BI "long double nearbyintl(long double " x );
.sp
.BI "double rint(double " x );
.br
.BI "float rintf(float " x );
.br
.BI "long double rintl(long double " x );
.fi
.sp
Link with \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR nearbyint (),
.BR nearbyintf (),
.BR nearbyintl ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L || _ISOC99_SOURCE;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.br
.BR rint ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 ||
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.br
.BR rintf (),
.BR rintl ():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR nearbyint (),
.BR nearbyintf (),
and
.BR nearbyintl ()
functions round their argument to an integer value in floating-point
format, using the current rounding direction (see
.BR fesetround (3))
and without raising the
.I inexact
exception.
When the current rounding direction is to nearest, these
functions round halfway cases to the even integer in accordance with
IEEE-754.
.LP
The
.BR rint (),
.BR rintf (),
and
.BR rintl ()
functions do the same, but will raise the
.I inexact
exception
.RB ( FE_INEXACT ,
checkable via
.BR fetestexcept (3))
when the result differs in value from the argument.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return the rounded integer value.

If
.I x
is integral, +0, \-0, NaN, or infinite,
.I x
itself is returned.
.SH ERRORS
No errors occur.
POSIX.1-2001 documents a range error for overflows, but see NOTES.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw26 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR nearbyint (),
.BR nearbyintf (),
.br
.BR nearbyintl (),
.BR rint (),
.br
.BR rintf (),
.BR rintl ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99, POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
SUSv2 and POSIX.1-2001 contain text about overflow (which might set
.I errno
to
.BR ERANGE ,
or raise an
.B FE_OVERFLOW
exception).
In practice, the result cannot overflow on any current machine,
so this error-handling stuff is just nonsense.
(More precisely, overflow can happen only when the maximum value
of the exponent is smaller than the number of mantissa bits.
For the IEEE-754 standard 32-bit and 64-bit floating-point numbers
the maximum value of the exponent is 128 (respectively, 1024),
and the number of mantissa bits is 24 (respectively, 53).)

If you want to store the rounded value in an integer type,
you probably want to use one of the functions described in
.BR lrint (3)
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceil (3),
.BR floor (3),
.BR lrint (3),
.BR round (3),
.BR trunc (3)
