'\" t
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SEM_CLOSE 3 2015-07-23 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
sem_close \- close a named semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <semaphore.h>
.sp
.BI "int sem_close(sem_t *" sem );
.fi
.sp
Link with \fI\-pthread\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sem_close ()
closes the named semaphore referred to by
.IR sem ,
allowing any resources that the system has allocated to
the calling process for this semaphore to be freed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success
.BR sem_close ()
returns 0; on error, \-1 is returned, with
.I errno
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I sem
is not a valid semaphore.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR sem_close ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH NOTES
All open named semaphores are automatically closed on process
termination, or upon
.BR execve (2).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sem_getvalue (3),
.BR sem_open (3),
.BR sem_post (3),
.BR sem_unlink (3),
.BR sem_wait (3),
.BR sem_overview (7)
