.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH SETLOGMASK 3  2015-08-08 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
setlogmask \- set log priority mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <syslog.h>
.sp
.BI "int setlogmask(int " mask );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A process has a log priority mask that determines which calls to
.BR syslog (3)
may be logged.
All other calls will be ignored.
Logging is enabled for the priorities that have the corresponding
bit set in
.IR mask .
The initial mask is such that logging is enabled for all priorities.
.LP
The
.BR setlogmask ()
function sets this logmask for the calling process,
and returns the previous mask.
If the mask argument is 0, the current logmask is not modified.
.LP
The eight priorities are
.BR LOG_EMERG ,
.BR LOG_ALERT ,
.BR LOG_CRIT ,
.BR LOG_ERR ,
.BR LOG_WARNING ,
.BR LOG_NOTICE ,
.BR LOG_INFO ,
and
.BR LOG_DEBUG .
The bit corresponding to a priority
.I p
is
.IR LOG_MASK(p) .
Some systems also provide a macro
.IR LOG_UPTO(p)
for the mask
of all priorities in the above list up to and including
.IR p .
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns the previous log priority mask.
.SH ERRORS
None.
.\" .SH NOTES
.\" The glibc logmask handling was broken in versions before glibc 2.1.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lbw22
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR setlogmask ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Unsafe race:LogMask
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.\" Note that the description in POSIX.1-2001 is flawed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR closelog (3),
.BR openlog (3),
.BR syslog (3)
