.\" Copyright 1995 James R. Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH STPCPY 3  2015-03-02 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
stpcpy \- copy a string returning a pointer to its end
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *stpcpy(char *" dest ", const char *" src );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR stpcpy ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR stpcpy ()
function copies the string pointed to by
.I src
(including the terminating null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq)) to the array pointed to by
.IR dest .
The strings may not overlap, and the destination string
.I dest
must be large enough to receive the copy.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR stpcpy ()
returns a pointer to the
.B end
of the string
.I dest
(that is, the address of the terminating null byte)
rather than the beginning.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR stpcpy ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function was added to POSIX.1-2008.
Before that, it was not part of
the C or POSIX.1 standards, nor customary on UNIX systems.
It first appeared at least as early as 1986,
in the Lattice C AmigaDOS compiler,
then in the GNU fileutils and GNU textutils in 1989,
and in the GNU C library by 1992.
It is also present on the BSDs.
.SH BUGS
This function may overrun the buffer
.IR dest .
.SH EXAMPLE
For example, this program uses
.BR stpcpy ()
to concatenate
.B foo
and
.B bar
to produce
.BR foobar ,
which it then prints.
.nf

#define _GNU_SOURCE
#include <string.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int
main(void)
{
    char buffer[20];
    char *to = buffer;

    to = stpcpy(to, "foo");
    to = stpcpy(to, "bar");
    printf("%s\\n", buffer);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bcopy (3),
.BR memccpy (3),
.BR memcpy (3),
.BR memmove (3),
.BR stpncpy (3),
.BR strcpy (3),
.BR string (3),
.BR wcpcpy (3)
