.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:06:49 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Aug 25 23:17:51 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Wed Dec 18 00:47:18 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" 2007-06-15, Marc Boyer <marc.boyer@enseeiht.fr> + mtk
.\"     Improve discussion of strncpy().
.\"
.TH STRCPY 3  2015-08-08 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
strcpy, strncpy \- copy a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strcpy(char *" dest ", const char *" src );
.sp
.BI "char *strncpy(char *" dest ", const char *" src ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strcpy ()
function copies the string pointed to by
.IR src ,
including the terminating null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq),
to the buffer pointed to by
.IR dest .
The strings may not overlap, and the destination string
.I dest
must be large enough to receive the copy.
.IR "Beware of buffer overruns!"
(See BUGS.)
.PP
The
.BR strncpy ()
function is similar, except that at most
.I n
bytes of
.I src
are copied.
.BR Warning :
If there is no null byte
among the first
.I n
bytes of
.IR src ,
the string placed in
.I dest
will not be null-terminated.
.PP
If the length of
.I src
is less than
.IR n ,
.BR strncpy ()
writes additional null bytes to
.I dest
to ensure that a total of
.I n
bytes are written.
.PP
A simple implementation of
.BR strncpy ()
might be:
.in +4n
.nf

char *
strncpy(char *dest, const char *src, size_t n)
{
    size_t i;

    for (i = 0; i < n && src[i] != \(aq\\0\(aq; i++)
        dest[i] = src[i];
    for ( ; i < n; i++)
        dest[i] = \(aq\\0\(aq;

    return dest;
}
.fi
.in
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR strcpy ()
and
.BR strncpy ()
functions return a pointer to
the destination string
.IR dest .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw19 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR strcpy (),
.BR strncpy ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, C89, C99, SVr4, 4.3BSD.
.SH NOTES
Some programmers consider
.BR strncpy ()
to be inefficient and error prone.
If the programmer knows (i.e., includes code to test!)
that the size of
.I dest
is greater than
the length of
.IR src ,
then
.BR strcpy ()
can be used.

One valid (and intended) use of
.BR strncpy ()
is to copy a C string to a fixed-length buffer
while ensuring both that the buffer is not overflowed
and that unused bytes in the target buffer are zeroed out
(perhaps to prevent information leaks if the buffer is to be
written to media or transmitted to another process via an
interprocess communication technique).

If there is no terminating null byte in the first
.I n
bytes of
.IR src ,
.BR strncpy ()
produces an unterminated string in
.IR dest .
If
.I buf
has length
.IR buflen ,
you can force termination using something like the following:
.in +4n
.nf

strncpy(buf, str, buflen \- 1);
if (buflen > 0)
    buf[buflen \- 1]= \(aq\\0\(aq;
.fi
.in
.PP
(Of course, the above technique ignores the fact that, if
.I src
contains more than
.I "buflen\ \-\ 1"
bytes, information is lost in the copying to
.IR dest .)
.\"
.SS strlcpy()
Some systems (the BSDs, Solaris, and others) provide the following function:

    size_t strlcpy(char *dest, const char *src, size_t size);

.\" http://static.usenix.org/event/usenix99/full_papers/millert/millert_html/index.html
.\"     "strlcpy and strlcat - consistent, safe, string copy and concatenation"
.\"     1999 USENIX Annual Technical Conference
This function is similar to
.BR strncpy (),
but it copies at most
.I size\-1
bytes to
.IR dest ,
always adds a terminating null byte,
and does not pad the target with (further) null bytes.
This function fixes some of the problems of
.BR strcpy ()
and
.BR strncpy (),
but the caller must still handle the possibility of data loss if
.I size
is too small.
The return value of the function is the length of
.IR src ,
which allows truncation to be easily detected:
if the return value is greater than or equal to
.IR size ,
truncation occurred.
If loss of data matters, the caller
.I must
either check the arguments before the call,
or test the function return value.
.BR strlcpy ()
is not present in glibc and is not standardized by POSIX,
.\" https://lwn.net/Articles/506530/
but is available on Linux via the
.IR libbsd
library.
.SH BUGS
If the destination string of a
.BR strcpy ()
is not large enough, then anything might happen.
Overflowing fixed-length string buffers is a favorite cracker technique
for taking complete control of the machine.
Any time a program reads or copies data into a buffer,
the program first needs to check that there's enough space.
This may be unnecessary if you can show that overflow is impossible,
but be careful: programs can get changed over time,
in ways that may make the impossible possible.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bcopy (3),
.BR memccpy (3),
.BR memcpy (3),
.BR memmove (3),
.BR stpcpy (3),
.BR stpncpy (3),
.BR strdup (3),
.BR string (3),
.BR wcscpy (3),
.BR wcsncpy (3)
