.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 12:51:24 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" 2006-05-19, Justin Pryzby <pryzbyj@justinpryzby.com>
.\"	Document strchrnul(3).
.\"
.TH STRCHR 3  2015-08-08 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
strchr, strrchr, strchrnul \- locate character in string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strchr(const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.BI "char *strrchr(const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strchrnul(const char *" s ", int " c );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strchr ()
function returns a pointer to the first occurrence
of the character
.I c
in the string
.IR s .
.PP
The
.BR strrchr ()
function returns a pointer to the last occurrence
of the character
.I c
in the string
.IR s .
.PP
The
.BR strchrnul ()
function is like
.BR strchr ()
except that if
.I c
is not found in
.IR s ,
then it returns a pointer to the null byte
at the end of
.IR s ,
rather than NULL.
.PP
Here "character" means "byte"; these functions do not work with
wide or multibyte characters.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR strchr ()
and
.BR strrchr ()
functions return a pointer to
the matched character or NULL if the character is not found.
The terminating null byte is considered part of the string,
so that if
.I c
is specified as \(aq\\0\(aq,
these functions return a pointer to the terminator.

The
.BR strchrnul ()
function returns a pointer to
the matched character,
or a pointer to the null
byte at the end of
.I s
(i.e.,
.IR "s+strlen(s)" )
if the character is not found.
.SH VERSIONS
.BR strchrnul ()
first appeared in glibc in version 2.1.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw32 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR strchr (),
.BR strrchr (),
.BR strchrnul ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR strchr (),
.BR strrchr ():
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, C89, C99, SVr4, 4.3BSD.

.BR strchrnul ()
is a GNU extension.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR index (3),
.BR memchr (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR string (3),
.BR strlen (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR strtok (3),
.BR wcschr (3),
.BR wcsrchr (3)
