.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright (C) 2005, 2014 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:05:30 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Fri Feb 16 14:25:17 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 20:55:44 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Mon Oct 15 21:16:25 2001 by John Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 16 00:04:43 2001 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Fri Jun 20 03:04:30 2003 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" 2005-12-13, mtk, Substantial rewrite of strerror_r() description
.\"         Addition of extra material on portability and standards.
.\"
.TH STRERROR 3  2015-03-02 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
strerror, strerror_r, strerror_l \- return string describing error number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strerror(int " errnum );
.sp
.BI "int strerror_r(int " errnum ", char *" buf ", size_t " buflen );
            /* XSI-compliant */
.sp
.BI "char *strerror_r(int " errnum ", char *" buf ", size_t " buflen );
            /* GNU-specific */

.BI "char *strerror_l(int " errnum ", locale_t " locale );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.ad l
.sp
.BR strerror_r ():
.RS 4
The XSI-compliant version is provided if:
.br
(_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600) && !\ _GNU_SOURCE
.br
Otherwise, the GNU-specific version is provided.
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strerror ()
function returns a pointer to a string that describes the error
code passed in the argument
.IR errnum ,
possibly using the
.B LC_MESSAGES
part of the current locale to select the appropriate language.
(For example, if
.I errnum
is
.BR EINVAL ,
the returned description will be "Invalid argument".)
This string must not be modified by the application, but may be
modified by a subsequent call to
.BR strerror ()
or
.BR strerror_l ().
No other library function, including
.BR perror (3),
will modify this string.
.\"
.SS strerror_r()
The
.BR strerror_r ()
function is similar to
.BR strerror (),
but is
thread safe.
This function is available in two versions:
an XSI-compliant version specified in POSIX.1-2001
(available since glibc 2.3.4, but not POSIX-compliant until glibc 2.13),
and a GNU-specific version (available since glibc 2.0).
The XSI-compliant version is provided with the feature test macros
settings shown in the SYNOPSIS;
otherwise the GNU-specific version is provided.
If no feature test macros are explicitly defined,
then (since glibc 2.4)
.B _POSIX_SOURCE
is defined by default with the value
200112L, so that the XSI-compliant version of
.BR strerror_r ()
is provided by default.

The XSI-compliant
.BR strerror_r ()
is preferred for portable applications.
It returns the error string in the user-supplied buffer
.I buf
of length
.IR buflen .

The GNU-specific
.BR strerror_r ()
returns a pointer to a string containing the error message.
This may be either a pointer to a string that the function stores in
.IR buf ,
or a pointer to some (immutable) static string
(in which case
.I buf
is unused).
If the function stores a string in
.IR buf ,
then at most
.I buflen
bytes are stored (the string may be truncated if
.I buflen
is too small and
.I errnum
is unknown).
The string always includes a terminating null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq).
.\"
.SS strerror_l()
.BR strerror_l ()
is like
.BR strerror (),
but maps
.I errnum
to a locale-dependent error message in the locale specified by
.IR locale .
The behavior of
.BR strerror_l ()
is undefined if
.I locale
is the special locale object
.BR LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
or is not a valid locale object handle.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR strerror (),
.BR strerror_l (),
and the GNU-specific
.BR strerror_r ()
functions return
the appropriate error description string,
or an "Unknown error nnn" message if the error number is unknown.

The XSI-compliant
.BR strerror_r ()
function returns 0 on success.
On error,
a (positive) error number is returned (since glibc 2.13),
or \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error (glibc versions before 2.13).

POSIX.1-2001 and POSIX.1-2008 require that a successful call to
.BR strerror ()
or
.BR strerror_l ()
shall leave
.I errno
unchanged, and note that,
since no function return value is reserved to indicate an error,
an application that wishes to check for errors should initialize
.I errno
to zero before the call,
and then check
.I errno
after the call.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
The value of
.I errnum
is not a valid error number.
.TP
.B ERANGE
Insufficient storage was supplied to contain the error description string.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw14 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR strerror ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Unsafe race:strerror
T{
.BR strerror_r (),
.br
.BR strerror_l ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH VERSIONS
The
.BR strerror_l ()
function first appeared in glibc 2.6.
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR strerror ()
is specified by POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, C89, and C99.
.BR strerror_r ()
is specified by POSIX.1-2001 and POSIX.1-2008.

.BR strerror_l ()
is specified in POSIX.1-2008.

The GNU-specific
.BR strerror_r ()
function is a nonstandard extension.

POSIX.1-2001 permits
.BR strerror ()
to set
.I errno
if the call encounters an error, but does not specify what
value should be returned as the function result in the event of an error.
On some systems,
.\" e.g., Solaris 8, HP-UX 11
.BR strerror ()
returns NULL if the error number is unknown.
On other systems,
.\" e.g., FreeBSD 5.4, Tru64 5.1B
.BR strerror ()
returns a string something like "Error nnn occurred" and sets
.I errno
to
.B EINVAL
if the error number is unknown.
C99 and POSIX.1-2008 require the return value to be non-NULL.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR err (3),
.BR errno (3),
.BR error (3),
.BR perror (3),
.BR strsignal (3),
.BR locale (7)
