.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:00:10 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon Jan 20 12:04:18 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Tue Jan 23 20:23:07 2001 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH STRSEP 3  2015-03-02 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
strsep \- extract token from string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strsep(char **" stringp ", const char *" delim );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR strsep ():
_BSD_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.I *stringp
is NULL, the
.BR strsep ()
function returns NULL
and does nothing else.
Otherwise, this function finds the first token
in the string
.IR *stringp ,
that is delimited by one of the bytes in the string
.IR delim .
This token is terminated by overwriting the delimiter
with a null byte (\(aq\\0\(aq),
and
.I *stringp
is updated to point past the token.
In case no delimiter was found, the token is taken to be
the entire string
.IR *stringp ,
and
.I *stringp
is made NULL.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR strsep ()
function returns a pointer to the token,
that is, it returns the original value of
.IR *stringp .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR strsep ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
4.4BSD.
.SH NOTES
The
.BR strsep ()
function was introduced as a replacement for
.BR strtok (3),
since the latter cannot handle empty fields.
However,
.BR strtok (3)
conforms to C89/C99 and hence is more portable.
.SH BUGS
Be cautious when using this function.
If you do use it, note that:
.IP * 2
This function modifies its first argument.
.IP *
This function cannot be used on constant strings.
.IP *
The identity of the delimiting character is lost.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR index (3),
.BR memchr (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR strchr (3),
.BR string (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR strtok (3)
