.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:53:39 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Added correction due to nsd@bbc.com (Nick Duffek) - aeb, 950610
.TH STRTOL 3  2015-08-08 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
strtol, strtoll, strtoq \- convert a string to a long integer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "long int strtol(const char *" nptr ", char **" endptr ", int " base );
.sp
.BI "long long int strtoll(const char *" nptr ", char **" endptr \
", int " base );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
.BR strtoll ():
.RS 4
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _ISOC99_SOURCE ||
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
or
.I cc\ -std=c99
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR strtol ()
function converts the initial part of the string
in
.I nptr
to a long integer value according to the given
.IR base ,
which must be between 2 and 36 inclusive, or be the special value 0.
.PP
The string may begin with an arbitrary amount of white space (as
determined by
.BR isspace (3))
followed by a single optional \(aq+\(aq or \(aq\-\(aq sign.
If
.I base
is zero or 16, the string may then include a
"0x" prefix, and the number will be read in base 16; otherwise, a
zero
.I base
is taken as 10 (decimal) unless the next character
is \(aq0\(aq, in which case it is taken as 8 (octal).
.PP
The remainder of the string is converted to a
.I long int
value
in the obvious manner, stopping at the first character which is not a
valid digit in the given base.
(In bases above 10, the letter \(aqA\(aq in
either uppercase or lowercase represents 10, \(aqB\(aq represents 11, and so
forth, with \(aqZ\(aq representing 35.)
.PP
If
.I endptr
is not NULL,
.BR strtol ()
stores the address of the
first invalid character in
.IR *endptr .
If there were no digits at
all,
.BR strtol ()
stores the original value of
.I nptr
in
.I *endptr
(and returns 0).
In particular, if
.I *nptr
is not \(aq\\0\(aq but
.I **endptr
is \(aq\\0\(aq on return, the entire string is valid.
.PP
The
.BR strtoll ()
function works just like the
.BR strtol ()
function but returns a long long integer value.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR strtol ()
function returns the result of the conversion,
unless the value would underflow or overflow.
If an underflow occurs,
.BR strtol ()
returns
.BR LONG_MIN .
If an overflow occurs,
.BR strtol ()
returns
.BR LONG_MAX .
In both cases,
.I errno
is set to
.BR ERANGE .
Precisely the same holds for
.BR strtoll ()
(with
.B LLONG_MIN
and
.B LLONG_MAX
instead of
.B LONG_MIN
and
.BR LONG_MAX ).
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
(not in C99)
The given
.I base
contains an unsupported value.
.TP
.B ERANGE
The resulting value was out of range.
.LP
The implementation may also set
.IR errno
to
.B EINVAL
in case
no conversion was performed (no digits seen, and 0 returned).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw29 lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR strtol (),
.BR strtoll (),
.BR strtoq ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe locale
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
.BR strtol ():
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, C89, C99 SVr4, 4.3BSD.

.BR strtoll ():
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, C99.
.SH NOTES
Since
.BR strtol ()
can legitimately return 0,
.BR LONG_MAX ,
or
.B LONG_MIN
.RB ( LLONG_MAX
or
.B LLONG_MIN
for
.BR strtoll ())
on both success and failure, the calling program should set
.I errno
to 0 before the call,
and then determine if an error occurred by checking whether
.I errno
has a nonzero value after the call.

According to POSIX.1,
in locales other than the "C" and "POSIX",
these functions may accept other,
implementation-defined numeric strings.
.LP
BSD also has
.sp
.in +4n
.nf
.BI "quad_t strtoq(const char *" nptr ", char **" endptr ", int " base );
.sp
.in
.fi
with completely analogous definition.
Depending on the wordsize of the current architecture, this
may be equivalent to
.BR strtoll ()
or to
.BR strtol ().
.SH EXAMPLE
The program shown below demonstrates the use of
.BR strtol ().
The first command-line argument specifies a string from which
.BR strtol ()
should parse a number.
The second (optional) argument specifies the base to be used for
the conversion.
(This argument is converted to numeric form using
.BR atoi (3),
a function that performs no error checking and
has a simpler interface than
.BR strtol ().)
Some examples of the results produced by this program are the following:
.in +4n
.nf

.RB "$" " ./a.out 123"
strtol() returned 123
.RB "$" " ./a.out \(aq    123\(aq"
strtol() returned 123
.RB "$" " ./a.out 123abc"
strtol() returned 123
Further characters after number: abc
.RB "$" " ./a.out 123abc 55"
strtol: Invalid argument
.RB "$" " ./a.out \(aq\(aq"
No digits were found
.RB "$" " ./a.out 4000000000"
strtol: Numerical result out of range
.fi
.in
.SS Program source
\&
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <limits.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <errno.h>

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    int base;
    char *endptr, *str;
    long val;

    if (argc < 2) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Usage: %s str [base]\\n", argv[0]);
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    str = argv[1];
    base = (argc > 2) ? atoi(argv[2]) : 10;

    errno = 0;    /* To distinguish success/failure after call */
    val = strtol(str, &endptr, base);

    /* Check for various possible errors */

    if ((errno == ERANGE && (val == LONG_MAX || val == LONG_MIN))
            || (errno != 0 && val == 0)) {
        perror("strtol");
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    if (endptr == str) {
        fprintf(stderr, "No digits were found\\n");
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    /* If we got here, strtol() successfully parsed a number */

    printf("strtol() returned %ld\\n", val);

    if (*endptr != \(aq\\0\(aq)        /* Not necessarily an error... */
        printf("Further characters after number: %s\\n", endptr);

    exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR atof (3),
.BR atoi (3),
.BR atol (3),
.BR strtod (3),
.BR strtoul (3)
