.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH STRVERSCMP 3  2015-03-02 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
strverscmp \- compare two version strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.BR "#define _GNU_SOURCE" "         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */"
.br
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int strverscmp(const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Often one has files
.IR jan1 ", " jan2 ", ..., " jan9 ", " jan10 ", ..."
and it feels wrong when
.BR ls (1)
orders them
.IR jan1 ", " jan10 ", ..., " jan2 ", ..., " jan9 .
.\" classical solution: "rename jan jan0 jan?"
In order to rectify this, GNU introduced the
.I \-v
option to
.BR ls (1),
which is implemented using
.BR versionsort (3),
which again uses
.BR strverscmp ().

Thus, the task of
.BR strverscmp ()
is to compare two strings and find the "right" order, while
.BR strcmp (3)
finds only the lexicographic order.
This function does not use
the locale category
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
so is meant mostly for situations
where the strings are expected to be in ASCII.

What this function does is the following.
If both strings are equal, return 0.
Otherwise, find the position
between two bytes with the property that before it both strings are equal,
while directly after it there is a difference.
Find the largest consecutive digit strings containing (or starting at,
or ending at) this position.
If one or both of these is empty,
then return what
.BR strcmp (3)
would have returned (numerical ordering of byte values).
Otherwise, compare both digit strings numerically, where digit strings with
one or more leading zeros are interpreted as if they have a decimal point
in front (so that in particular digit strings with more leading zeros
come before digit strings with fewer leading zeros).
Thus, the ordering is
.IR 000 ", " 00 ", " 01 ", " 010 ", " 09 ", " 0 ", " 1 ", " 9 ", " 10 .
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR strverscmp ()
function returns an integer
less than, equal to, or greater than zero if
.I s1
is found, respectively, to be earlier than, equal to,
or later than
.IR s2 .
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR strverscmp ()
.\" FIXME: the following marking is different from which in glibc manual.
.\" strverscmp: MT-Safe locale
.\" glibc manual says strverscmp should have marking locale because it calls
.\" isdigit() multiple times and isdigit() uses locale variable.
.\" But isdigit() has two implementations. With different compiling conditions,
.\" we may call isdigit() in macro, then strverscmp() should not have locale
.\" problem.
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH CONFORMING TO
This function is a GNU extension.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rename (1),
.BR strcasecmp (3),
.BR strcmp (3),
.BR strcoll (3)
