.\" Copyright 1997 Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\" Created Wed Jul  2 23:27:34 ART 1997
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Added info on availability, aeb, 971207
.\" Added -lutil remark, 030718
.\" 2008-07-02, mtk, document updwtmpx()
.\"
.TH UPDWTMP 3  2015-04-19 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
updwtmp, logwtmp \- append an entry to the wtmp file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <utmp.h>
.sp
.BI "void updwtmp(const char *" wtmp_file ", const struct utmp *" ut );
.br
.BI "void logwtmp(const char *" line ", const char *" name \
", const char *" host );
.fi

For
.BR logwtmp (),
link with \fI\-lutil\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR updwtmp ()
appends the utmp structure
.I ut
to the wtmp file.
.PP
.BR logwtmp ()
constructs a utmp structure using
.IR line ", " name ", " host ,
current time and current process ID.
Then it calls
.BR updwtmp ()
to append the structure to the wtmp file.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/log/wtmp
database of past user logins
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lbw24
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR updwtmp (),
.br
.BR logwtmp ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Unsafe sig:ALRM timer
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
Not in POSIX.1.
Present on Solaris, NetBSD, and perhaps other systems.
.SH NOTES
For consistency with the other "utmpx" functions (see
.BR getutxent (3)),
glibc provides (since version 2.1):
.nf
.sp
.B #include <utmpx.h>
.sp
.BI "void updwtmpx (const char *" wtmpx_file ", const struct utmpx *" utx );
.fi
.PP
This function performs the same task as
.BR updwtmp (),
but differs in that it takes a
.I utmpx
structure as its last argument.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getutxent (3),
.BR wtmp (5)
