.\" Copyright (c) Bruno Haible <haible@clisp.cons.org>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_ONEPARA)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code and manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroup's Single UNIX specification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"
.TH WCSDUP 3  2015-03-02 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
wcsdup \- duplicate a wide-character string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.sp
.BI "wchar_t *wcsdup(const wchar_t *" s );
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.in
.sp
.BR wcsdup ():
.PD 0
.ad l
.RS 4
.TP 4
Since glibc 2.10:
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 700 || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP
Before glibc 2.10:
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR wcsdup ()
function is the wide-character equivalent
of the
.BR strdup (3)
function.
It allocates and returns a new wide-character string whose initial
contents is a duplicate of the wide-character string pointed to by
.IR s .
.PP
Memory for the new wide-character string is
obtained with
.BR malloc (3),
and should be freed with
.BR free (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR wcsdup ()
returns a pointer to the new wide-character string.
On error, it returns \-1, with
.I errno
set to indicate the cause of the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory available to allocate duplicate string.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR wcsdup ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2008.
This function is not specified in POSIX.1-2001,
and is not widely available on other systems.
.\" present in libc5 and glibc 2.0 and later
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR strdup (3),
.BR wcscpy (3)
